UID 93RS0005-01-2026-001397-74
Case No. 2-1077/2026
category 2.232
SOLUTION
In the name of the Russian Federation
"12" May 2026 Makeevka
Tsentralno-City District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People's Republic, consisting of
presiding judge Semenova T.V.
under secretary Babkevich V.O.
having considered in an open court session in the courtroom a civil case at the request of the Administration of the Makeyevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, Artur Georgievich Khudoverdov on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property,
U S T A N O V I L:
The administration of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic appealed to the Tsentralno-Gorodsky district court of the mountains. Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property, the interested Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic.
By the court's ruling, Artur Georgievich Khudoverdov was involved in the case as an interested party.
According to the application, the applicant motivates his demands by the fact that on November 26, 2025, the real estate is a non-residential building with an area of 473.3 sq.m., located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, Krylova street, 30/1, cadastral number 93:36:0010507:8088, accepted by the Rosreestr Office for the Donetsk People's Republic to be registered as ownerless, which is confirmed by the entry in the Unified State Register of Real Estate dated November 26, 2025 No. KUVD-101/2025-4256893/1. Other owners are unknown. Management of property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, which has signs of ownerlessness and is not classified as federal property, the property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property, is carried out by the authorities of the Donetsk People's Republic in the manner established by the Government of the Russian Federation, unless otherwise provided by 5-FKZ. The procedure for recognizing such property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, applies until 01/01/2028, in agreement with the federal executive body performing the functions of managing state property. It is indicated that by registering the Object as ownerless, the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintaining the Unified State Register of Real Estate, confirms the fact that the state registration of the Object as ownerless was carried out lawfully. After the expiration of a three-month period, from the date of registration of the Object as ownerless, no individuals or legal entities have made any claims regarding the Object that is the subject of this application, that is, there is no dispute about the right. Based on the above, they ask the court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of the municipality of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic to ownerless real estate - a non-residential building located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, Krylova street, 30/1 cadastral number: 93:36:0010507:8088.
The applicant’s representative did not appear at the court hearing; the court received a statement according to which he asked to consider the case in the absence of a representative of the Makeevka City District Administration due to his employment. It supports the stated demands and asks them to be satisfied in full.
The representative of the interested party - the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic did not appear at the court hearing; the court received a statement according to which he asks to consider the case in the absence of a representative of the Administration of the Makeyevka Urban District due to employment.
Interested person Khudoverdov A.G. did not appear at the court hearing for reasons unknown to the court; he was duly notified of the day, time and place of the hearing.
In such circumstances, since the notification of the participants in the process was carried out by the court in accordance with the requirements of Articles 113-116 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court comes to the conclusion that it is possible to consider a civil case in the absence of participants who failed to appear, in accordance with the requirements of Art. 167 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
Having examined the case materials, based on the constitutional principle of adversarial character and the obligation of the parties to provide evidence in support of the stated claims and objections, evaluating the evidence, each individually and in their totality, the court comes to the following.
According to Part 3 of Article 1 of the Federal Constitutional Law of October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ “On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic into the Russian Federation and the formation of a new entity within the Russian Federation - the Donetsk People's Republic”, the Donetsk People's Republic is considered accepted into the Russian Federation from the date of signing the Agreement between the Russian Federation and the Donetsk People's Republic on the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic to the Russian Federation and formation of a new subject within the Russian Federation. The said Agreement was signed on September 30, 2022.
According to Part. 1, 2 tbsp. 4 of the Federal Constitutional Law of the Russian Federation of October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ “On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic to the Russian Federation and the formation of a new subject within the Russian Federation - the Donetsk People's Republic” legislative and other regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic from the date of admission to the Russian Federation of the Donetsk People's Republic and the formation of a new entity within the Russian Federation, unless otherwise not provided for by this Federal Constitutional Law. Regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic until the end of the transition period (until January 1, 2026 - Article 36 of the Law) or until the adoption of the corresponding regulatory legal act of the Russian Federation and (or) the regulatory legal act of the Donetsk People's Republic.
The requirements of Part 1 of Article 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation stipulate that an interested person has the right, in the manner established by the legislation on civil proceedings, to apply to the court for the protection of violated or disputed rights, freedoms or legitimate interests.
According to Art. 56 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, each party must prove the circumstances to which it refers as the basis for its claims and objections, unless otherwise provided by law.
In accordance with Art. 55 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, evidence is information obtained in the manner prescribed by law about the facts, on the basis of which the court establishes the presence or absence of circumstances justifying the demands and objections of the parties, as well as other circumstances that are important for the correct consideration and resolution of the case. Such information can be obtained from explanations of the parties and third parties, testimony of witnesses, written and material evidence, audio and video recordings, and expert opinions.
Based on Art. 59 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court accepts only that evidence that is relevant for the consideration and resolution of the case.
In accordance with clause 6, part 1, art. 262 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, in a special proceeding, the court considers cases of recognizing a movable thing as ownerless and recognizing the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable thing.
According to Art. 263 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, cases of special proceedings are considered and resolved by the court according to the general rules of claim proceedings with the features established by this chapter and Chapters 28 - 38 of this Code. The court considers cases of special proceedings with the participation of applicants and other interested persons.
According to Article 57 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, each party must prove the circumstances to which it refers as the basis for its claims and objections, unless otherwise provided by federal law.
The court found that according to the Decision of the Administration of the city of Makeevka of the Donetsk People's Republic dated November 30, 2023 No. 9/3 “On issues of legal succession in the municipal formation of the city district of Makeevka of the Donetsk People's Republic” - the legal successor of the property rights and obligations of the bodies that exercised on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic on the day of the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic to the Russian Federation and the formation of a new one within the Russian Federation subject, the powers assigned by the legislation of the Russian Federation to the powers of local government bodies are: Administration of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic - in terms of property necessary to ensure its activities, as well as other property that is in the municipal ownership of the municipality (municipal treasury, property transferred to operational management, economic management)
According to information from the Municipal Unitary Enterprise of the Makeevka City Administration “Kommunalnik-15” dated July 14, 2025 addressed to the Head of the municipality of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People’s Republic, in the housing stock maintained by the enterprise, property was identified that had signs of ownerlessness - an apartment at the address: Makeevka, st. Davydenko, building 113/22, apartment 15. Total area of ​​the apartment is 28.40 sq.m. Visually, the apartment is not residential, payment for services for the maintenance of the house and surrounding area has not been made since November 1, 2018, there is no access to the apartment. The debt as of 03/01/2025 is 8327.65 rubles (case file 7)
On February 28, 2025, on the official website of the DPR on the Internet information and telecommunications network, information was posted on the identification by the Administration of the city of Makeevka of a real estate property that has signs of ownerlessness, located at the address: DPR, Makeevka city, Makeevka, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, Krylova st., 30/1 for the purpose of identifying and informing owner of the property (case file 10).
According to information from the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic dated August 20, 2025, as of February 20, 2025, information about real estate objects located at the address: DPR. Makeevka, Krylova St., 30/1, are not included in the Unified Register of State Property Objects and objects in respect of which temporary administration has been introduced (operational management), as well as objects of other forms of ownership under state control (case file 11 turnover)
According to the response of the Branch of the State Unitary Enterprise of the DPR "Water of Donbass" dated May 14, 2025 at the address: DPR, Makeevka, Krylova St., 30/1 (car service building). Agreement No. 5243 dated September 20, 2023 was concluded with IP Yakubovsky A.I. on the basis of an agreement for free use of non-residential premises dated September 15, 2023 with FL Khudoverdov A.G.. Last payment in May 2025. AS OF 05/01/2025 there is no debt (case sheet 14 turnover-15)
From the response of the Makeevteploset Branch of the State Unitary Enterprise of the Donetsk People's Republic "Donbassteploenergo" dated April 15, 2025, it is clear that the heat supply agreement for a real estate property that has signs of ownerlessness, located at the address: DPR, Makeevka, Makeevka, Krylova St., 30/1 (car service building) is not concluded, since thermal energy is not supplied to this facility, there is no information about the owner (case file 15 turnover)
According to a letter from Energosbyt Donetsk LLC dated 05/21/2025, a non-residential building at the address: Makeevka, Krylova Street, 30/1 (car service building) - an energy supply agreement dated 03/21/2024 No. 9341023826 was concluded with individual entrepreneur Andrey Ivanovich Yakubovsky. Last payment date is 05/08/2025. As of May 19, 2025, there is no debt. (case file 16)
According to information from the Makeevka Department for Gas Supply and Gasification "Donbassgaz" of the branch of Chernomorneftegaz LLC dated September 16, 2025, the address: DPR, Makeevka, Makeevka, Krylova Street, 30/1, is not connected to the gas supply system. (l.d. 16 revolution)
According to the response of the Territorial Administration of the Federal Agency for State Property Management in the Donetsk People's Republic dated April 17, 2025, there is no information about the real estate property located at the address: DPR, Makeevka, Makeevka, Krylova Street, 30/1, in the Register of Federal Property for the facility as of April 15, 2025 (case file 17).
According to Notification 9175/04.1.2-10 on the absence of an object in the register of municipal property, the Administration of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic notifies of the absence of information in the register of municipal property owned by the municipality of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic regarding the object: non-residential building located at the address: Donetsk People's Republic, 286117, urban district of Makeyevka, city Makeevka, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, Krylova street, building 30/1, as of May 23, 2025 (case file 17 turnover)
According to the act on the impossibility of identifying the owner of an object with signs of ownerlessness dated May 26, 2025, the commission came to the conclusion that it was impossible to identify the owner of a non-residential object located at the address: DPR, Makeevka, Krylova Street, building 30/1 (case file 18)
Resolution of the Administration of the urban district of Makeevka DPR dated May 28, 2025 No. 2014 “On registration of real estate objects as ownerless” decided: the Department of Property and Land Relations of the Administration of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic to ensure registration with the territorial body of the federal executive body that carries out the state cadastral accounting, state registration of rights, maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate, non-residential premises located at the address: Donetsk People's Republic, 286117, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intra-city district, Krylova street, 30/1, as ownerless (case sheet 19 turnover)
Notification of the Rosreestr Office for the Donetsk People's Republic dated November 26, 2025 No. KUVD-101/2025-4256893/1 real estate in the form of a building located at the address: Donetsk People's Republic, 286117, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, street Krylova, 30/1, registered as ownerless (ld. 20 turnover)
According to an extract from the Unified State Register of Real Estate on the main characteristics and registered rights to the property at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Krylova street, house 30/1, 11/26/2025. the specified property is registered as an ownerless property; copyright holder: Administration of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, cadastral number: 93:36:0010507:8088 (case sheet 21-22)
According to Art. 12 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation (hereinafter referred to as the Civil Code of the Russian Federation), the protection of civil rights is carried out through the recognition of rights.
As provided in paragraph 3 of Art. 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, in cases and in the manner provided for by this Code, a person may acquire the right of ownership to property that does not have an owner, to property whose owner is unknown, or to property that the owner has abandoned or to which he has lost the right of ownership on other grounds provided by law.
The provisions of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation establishes that the ownerlessness of real estate presupposes the absence or unknownness of its owner, and also the condition for considering an application to recognize the property as ownerless is the absence of a dispute about the right.
In accordance with paragraph 1 of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerless is a thing that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown or, unless otherwise provided by law, the owner of which has renounced the right of ownership.
Based on the content of Article 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerlessness of real estate presupposes the absence or unknownness of its owner, and the condition for considering an application to recognize property as ownerless is the absence of a dispute about the right. It is these facts that are included in the subject of proof in this category of cases and must be established in court.
Based on Part 2 of Art. 290 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property is submitted to the court at its location by the body authorized to manage municipal property.
According to the legal position set out in paragraph 59 of the resolution of the Plenum of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation No. 10, Plenum of the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation No. 22 of April 29, 2010 “On some issues arising in judicial practice when resolving disputes related to the protection of property rights and other real rights,” unless otherwise provided by law, a claim for recognition of a right is subject to satisfaction if the plaintiff presents evidence of the emergence of the corresponding right.
The procedure for recognizing the ownership of an ownerless immovable property by the body authorized to manage municipal property is defined in Chapter 33 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
Registration of an object of real estate as ownerless, as well as subsequent recognition by the body authorized to manage municipal property of ownership of ownerless real estate in court on the basis of Article 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation is possible only in the absence of legal claims of other persons to such property. At the same time, the absence of state registration of the ownership rights of a company or another person to a disputed object cannot in itself be a basis for declaring it ownerless.
According to Part 7 of Article 12 of Law No. 5-FKZ, management of property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, which has signs of ownerlessness and is not classified as federal property, the property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property, is carried out by the authorities of the Donetsk People's Republic in the manner established by the Government of the Russian Federation, unless otherwise provided by this Federal Constitutional Law. The procedure for recognizing such property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, is applied until January 1, 2028, in agreement with the federal executive body exercising the functions of managing state property.
In accordance with Art. 10 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic" dated 03/21/2024 No. 66-RZ (hereinafter referred to as Law 66-RZ) after three months from the date of registration of the residential premises as ownerless territorial the body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintaining the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the authorized body applies to the court with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the municipal entity to this residential premises in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation.
In accordance with Art. 3 of Law 66-RZ, local government bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic, represented by bodies authorized by them, independently carry out actions to identify, record and accept residential premises that have signs of ownerless property into the municipal ownership of the municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic, on the territory of which they are located, on the grounds provided for by law.
In accordance with Part 1 of Art. 4 of Law 66-RZ, information about residential premises that have signs of ownerlessness may come from individuals and legal entities, including public authorities, who have become aware of such property.
In accordance with Part 2 of Art. 5 of Law 66-RZ The Administration of the Makeyevka Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic carried out all the prescribed measures to identify real estate that has signs of being ownerless.
Based on Part 3 of Art. 1 of the Federal Law of the Russian Federation dated July 13, 2015 No. 218-FZ “On State Registration of Real Estate” (hereinafter referred to as Law 218-FZ), state registration of rights to real estate is a legal act of recognition and confirmation of the occurrence, change, transition, termination of the right of a certain person to real estate or restrictions on such a right and encumbrance of real estate (hereinafter referred to as state registration of rights).
In accordance with Part 3 of Art. 3 of Law 218-FZ, the competence of the rights registration authority when carrying out state cadastral registration and state registration of rights includes, among other things: checking the validity of the documents submitted by the applicant and the availability of the corresponding rights of the person or authority who prepared the document; checking the availability of previously registered and previously declared rights; registration of ownerless real estate in the manner established by the regulatory body.
Thus, by registering the Property as ownerless, the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintaining the Unified State Register of Real Estate, confirms the fact that the state registration of the Property as ownerless was carried out lawfully.
The court has no reason to doubt the veracity of the circumstances presented, since they are confirmed by other objective evidence.
As can be seen from the case materials, any individuals and legal entities did not declare any claims regarding the property - a non-residential building at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Krylova street house 30/1, that is, there is no dispute about the right. These circumstances give the Administration of the Makeyevka Urban District of the DPR the right to apply to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property.
The court also found that, despite the implementation by the Administration of the Makeevka Urban District of the DPR of all the necessary measures to place in the media information regarding the real estate property - a non-residential building located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka Urban District, Makeevka city, Krylova Street, building 30/1, its owner has not yet appeared.
When going to court with these demands, the Administration of the Makeyevka urban district of the DPR presented evidence that the real estate was registered with the body that carries out state registration of rights to real estate.
Taking into account the absence of claims by individuals or legal entities regarding the property that is the subject of the application, as well as the fact that there is no dispute about the right, the court comes to the conclusion that the Makeevka City District Administration’s application for the transfer of ownerless real estate to municipal ownership is legal.
Having examined the evidence provided to the court in its entirety, the court believes that there are necessary and sufficient conditions for recognizing the disputed ownerless real estate as an object of municipal property, in connection with which the application of the Administration of the Makeyevka Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic is subject to satisfaction.
Based on the above, guided by the Federal Constitutional Law of October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ "On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic to the Russian Federation and the formation of a new subject within the Russian Federation - the Donetsk People's Republic", Art. Art. 194-199, 209, 262, 263, 264 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
DECISION:
The application of the Administration of the Makeyevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic is fully satisfied.
Recognize the right of municipal ownership of the municipality of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic to ownerless real estate - a non-residential building located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, Krylova street, house 30/1, cadastral number 93:36:0010507:8088.
Based on Part 2 of Art. 199 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the preparation of a reasoned court decision was postponed for a period of ten days from the date of completion of the trial of the case.
The operative part of the decision was drawn up, signed by the judge in the deliberation room and announced on May 12, 2026.
An appeal against the decision can be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Tsentralno-Gorodsky District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People's Republic within a month from the date of the decision in final form.
Judge:
The reasoned court decision was made on May 26, 2026.