Case No. 2-1096/2024
DEFINITION
city of Mariupol DPR October 2, 2024
The Primorsky District Court of the city of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic, composed of the presiding judge Nidzieva N.N., with the secretary of the court session Zaitseva T.S., having considered in open court a civil case on the application of the administration of the city of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property,
installed:
The administration of the city of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic applied to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property - a residential building located at the address: Donetsk People's Republic,
<address>
.
The applicant - the administration of the city of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic, the interested party - the Office of Rosreestr for the Donetsk People's Republic, were duly notified of the date, time and place of the consideration of the case, did not appear at the court hearing, submitted to the court applications for consideration of the case in their absence.
The interested party - the prosecutor's office of the city of Mariupol, Donetsk People's Republic, was duly notified of the date, time and place of the consideration of the case, but did not appear at the court hearing.
In accordance with the requirements of Part 3 of Article 167 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, the court considers it possible to consider the case in the absence of the parties.
Before the court hearing, the applicant submitted to the court a statement of refusal of the stated claims in full, asked to terminate the proceedings in the case, indicated that the consequences of refusal of the claim were explained and understandable.
In accordance with Article 263 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, cases of special proceedings are considered and resolved by the court according to the general rules of claim proceedings with the features established by Chapters 27-38 of this Code. This rule also applies to the content of a statement about establishing a fact of legal significance.
According to Part 1 of Article 39 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, the plaintiff has the right to change the basis or subject of the claim, increase or decrease the amount of the claim, or refuse the statement, the defendant has the right to admit the claim, and the parties can end the case with an amicable agreement.
In accordance with Part 2 of Article 39 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, the court does not accept the plaintiff’s refusal of the claim, the recognition of the claim by the defendant and does not approve a settlement agreement between the parties if this is contrary to the law or violates the rights and legitimate interests of other persons.
Since in this case the refusal of the application was made voluntarily, does not contradict the law and does not violate the rights and legitimate interests of other persons, such a refusal must be accepted by the court.
In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 220 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, the court terminates the proceedings if the plaintiff has abandoned the claim and the refusal is accepted by the court.
Guided by Articles 39, 173, 224, 225, 220, 221 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, the judge,
defined:
accept the refusal of the administration of the city of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic of the stated requirements for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate - a residential building located at the address: Donetsk People's Republic,
<address>
.
Proceedings in a civil case upon an application from the administration of the city of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property shall be terminated.
Explain to the applicant that a repeated appeal to the court in a dispute between the same parties, about the same subject and on the same grounds is not allowed.
A private complaint against the court's ruling may be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Primorsky District Court of the city of Mariupol, Donetsk People's Republic within fifteen days.
Judge of the Primorsky District Court
city of Mariupol DPR N.N. Nidzieva