UID 93RS0031-01-2025-001703-90
Case No. 2-127/2026
DEFINITION
January 29, 2026 Pershotravnevyi District Court of the Donetsk People's Republic composed of:
presiding judge Shemigon I.V.,
under secretary L.P. Tsukanova,
having examined in open court in the courtroom of the town. Mangush civil case at the request of the Administration of the Mangush Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic, the interested party - the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate, -
U S T A N O V I L:
The Pershotravnevoy District Court of the Donetsk People's Republic is processing a civil case on the application of the Administration of the Mangush Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic, the interested party is the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate.
The applicant's representative of the Administration of the Mangush Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing, submitted to the court an application to terminate the proceedings.
According to Part 1 of Article 263 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, cases of special proceedings are considered and resolved by the court according to the general rules of claim proceedings with the features established by this chapter and Chapters 28 - 38 of this Code.
In accordance with the requirements of Art. 220 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court terminates the proceedings if the plaintiff renounces the claim and the refusal is accepted by the court.
Having examined the case materials and the statement of the applicant’s representative to terminate the proceedings, the court comes to the conclusion that the refusal of the statement by the applicant does not contradict the law and does not violate anyone’s rights and interests protected by law, therefore the court accepts it.
Thus, there are grounds for termination of civil proceedings.
Guided by Articles 220, 221 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court -
O P R E D E L I L:
Terminate civil proceedings at the request of the Administration of the Mangush Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic, the interested party is the Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate.
A private complaint against a court ruling may be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Pershotravnevyi District Court of the Donetsk People's Republic within 15 (fifteen) days from the date of its issuance.
Judge I.V. Shemigon