UIN 93RS0005-01-2025-010909-40
Case No. 2-154/2026
G-2.137
DECISION IN ABSENTIA
IN THE NAME OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
On January 19, 2026, the Central City District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People's Republic, consisting of:
presiding judge Maksimova N.N.,
under secretary Vetrova A.V.,
with the participation of the plaintiff Melnik N.A.,
Having considered in open court in the city of Makeevka a civil case on the claim of Natalya Anatolyevna Melnik against Oksana Olegovna Melnik, Dmitry Olegovich Melnik, a third party: the Makeevskoye Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia on the recognition of persons who have lost the right to use residential premises
INSTALLED:
Plaintiff Melnik N.A. filed a claim with the court against Melnik O.O., Melnik D.O. on recognition of persons who have lost the right to use residential premises. The plaintiff motivates her claims by the fact that she is the owner of a residential building located at the address:
<address>
on the basis of a certificate of the right to inheritance by will dated 09/17/2024 and a certificate of the right to inheritance by law dated 09/17/2024. The following are registered in the above residential building: plaintiff Melnik N.A. from 09/21/1987, daughter of the plaintiff Melnik O.O. from December 26, 2002, the plaintiff’s son Melnik D.O. from 06/23/2006. At the same time Melnik O.O. since 2018 he has not lived in the above-mentioned residential building and has no intention of living in it. Melnik D.O. has not lived since 2020 and also has no intention of living there. She independently bears all the costs of maintaining the house, pays utility bills, routine repairs, the defendants do not care about the safety of the housing, are not interested in the house, and do not use it. Since the defendants retain their registration in the specified house, utility bills are also charged to them, as to those actually living in this premises. Since the registration of the defendants in a residential building that belongs to her violates her rights as an owner and interferes with legal possession, use and disposal, the plaintiff asks the court to recognize Melnik O.O., Melnik D.O. who have lost the right to use residential premises located at the address:
<address>
.
Plaintiff Melnik N.A. at the court hearing she supported the claims, asked them to be satisfied, and gave the court explanations similar to the arguments set out in the statement of claim.
Defendants Melnik O.O. and Melnik D.O., did not appear at the court hearing, having been duly notified of the time and place of the court hearing, did not ask to consider the case in their absence or to postpone the consideration of the case, in connection with which the court considers it possible to consider the case in absentia proceedings, to which the plaintiff did not object.
The representative of the third party - the Makeevskoye Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia did not appear at the court hearing, was notified of the date of the consideration of the case in a timely manner, and the court did not notify the reasons for the failure to appear.
The court, taking into account the position of the plaintiff, having questioned witnesses and studied the case materials, considers that the statement of claim must be satisfied on the following grounds.
Witness E.V. Matvievskaya, questioned at the court hearing. explained to the court that the defendants in the case are the children of the plaintiff. Melnik N.A. lives at:
<address>
. Oksana, the plaintiff's daughter, got married and left home in 2018, the plaintiff's dreams - Dmitry also left home after graduating. The plaintiff did not interfere with their use of the house.
Witness L.P. Sokolova, questioned at the court hearing, explained to the court that he had known the plaintiff as a neighbor for a long time. The plaintiff’s daughter Oksana has not lived in the disputed house since 2018 and has gone to Amsterdam. The plaintiff’s son, Dmitry, has been living in Ukraine since 2020, the children took things from the house, and they do not pay for utilities in the house.
From the certificate of the right to inheritance under a will, certified on September 17, 2024 by a notary of the Makeyevsky City Notary District, it is seen that 9/10 of the residential building, at the address: Russian Federation, DPR, city o. Makeevka,
<address>
, belongs to Melnik N.A. The ownership right was registered in the Unified State Register of Real Estate on September 23, 2024 (case sheet 16-17).
From the certificate of the right to inheritance according to the law, certified on September 17, 2024 by the notary of the Makeyevsky City Notary District, it is seen that the heir of O.M. Melnik, who died on June 6, 2012, is his wife N.A. Melnik. The inherited property consists of 1/10 share of a residential building, at the address: Russian Federation, DPR, city district. Makeevka,
<address>
. The ownership right was registered in the Unified State Register of Real Estate on September 23, 2024 (case file 19-21).
According to address certificate No. 896 dated September 23, 2025, in a residential building at the address: DPR,
<address>
registered: Melnik N.A. from 09/21/1987, Melnik O.O. from 12/26/2002, Melnik D.O. from 06/23/2006 (case file 22).
According to the act drawn up on November 12, 2025, L.P. Sokolova, living at the address:
<address>
, Matvievskaya E.V., residing at:
<address>
, in a residential building located at:
<address>
Melnik O.O. registered, but from 2018 to the present time she has not lived and her personal belongings are not in the house. Melnik D.O., registered, but has not lived since 2020 to the present, there are no personal belongings in the house (case file 28).
In accordance with Art. 31 of the Housing Code of the Russian Federation, members of the family of the owner of a residential premises include his spouse living together with this owner in the residential premises belonging to him, as well as the children and parents of this owner. Family members of the owner of a residential premises have the right to use this residential premises on an equal basis with its owner, unless otherwise established by an agreement between the owner and members of his family. Family members of the owner of a residential premises are obliged to use this residential premises for its intended purpose and ensure its safety. Members of the family of the owner of a residential premises who are capable and limited by the court in their legal capacity are jointly and severally liable with the owner for the obligations arising from the use of this residential premises, unless otherwise established by agreement between the owner and members of his family. In the event of termination of family relations with the owner of a residential premises, the right to use this residential premises for a former family member of the owner of this residential premises is not retained, unless otherwise established by an agreement between the owner and the former member of his family.
According to Part 1 of Art. 288 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, the owner exercises the rights of ownership, use and disposal of residential premises belonging to him in accordance with its purpose.
According to Art. 304 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation provides that the owner may demand the elimination of any violations of his rights, even if these violations were not associated with deprivation of possession.
The court found that defendants Melnik O.O., Melnik D.O. were registered in the plaintiff's house as a family member. Since 2018, defendant Melnik O.A., and since 2020, defendant Melnik D.O. they do not live in the house owned by the plaintiff, do not incur expenses for maintaining the residential premises, and their absence from the residential premises is long-term and permanent. Since 2014, the defendants have ceased family relations with the plaintiff. The registration of the defendants in the residential premises violates the rights of the plaintiff, and therefore the court considers it possible to satisfy the claims and recognize Melnik O.O., Melnik D.O. who have lost the right to use residential premises.
Guided by Art. Art. 194-199 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
DECISION:
The claims of Melnik Natalya Anatolyevna are satisfied.
Recognize Melnik Oksana Olegovna,
DD.MM.YYYY
year of birth, and Melnik Dmitry Olegovich,
DD.MM.YYYY
year of birth, who have lost the right to use residential premises located at the address:
<address>
.
An application to cancel a court decision in absentia may be filed by the defendant within seven days from the date of delivery of a copy of this decision. A court decision in absentia may be appealed by the defendant on appeal within one month from the date of the court ruling refusing to satisfy the application to cancel this court decision, and by other persons participating in the case, as well as persons who were not involved in the case and the question of the rights and obligations of which was resolved by the court, a court decision in absentia may be appealed on appeal within one month after the expiration of the deadline for the defendant to file an application to cancel this court decision, and in if such an application is filed - within one month from the date of the court’s decision to refuse to satisfy this application.
Judge:
The reasoned decision was made on January 28, 2026