UID 93RS0007-01-2024-003961-04
Case No. 2-1855/2025
DEFINITION
city of Mariupol
Donetsk People's Republic August 08, 2025
Ilyichevsky District Court of the city of Mariupol, Donetsk People's Republic, consisting of:
presiding judge Martynov A.A.,
with the secretary of the court session Chelpanova M.A.,
having considered in open court a civil case on the application of the administration of the city of Mariupol to recognize the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property,
installed:
The administration of the city of Mariupol appealed to the court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property -
<address>
Court decision dated
DD.MM.YYYY
administration requirements
<address>
satisfied.
Court ruling dated
DD.MM.YYYY
court decision from
DD.MM.YYYY
canceled in accordance with Art. 396 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation at the request of an interested person
Full name4
At the court hearing, a representative of the administration
<address>
did not appear, duly notified.
Interested person
Full name4
and his representative
Full name2
did not appear at the court hearing and were duly notified.
The representative of the interested party of the Rosreestr Office for the Donetsk People's Republic did not appear and was duly notified.
The case against the parties was considered in accordance with Art. 167 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
Having examined the case materials, the court comes to the following conclusion.
According to paragraph 1 of Article 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, an ownerless thing is a thing that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown or, unless otherwise provided by law, the right of ownership to which the owner has refused.
According to paragraph 1 of Article 235 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, the right of ownership terminates when the owner alienates his property to other persons, the owner renounces the right of ownership, the destruction or destruction of property and when the right of ownership to property is lost in other cases provided for by law.
By virtue of part 3 of Art. 263 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, it is established that there is a dispute about the right within the jurisdiction of the court, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of claim proceedings.
At the court hearing it was established that
Full name4
is the owner of the disputed apartment, based on the purchase and sale agreement
DD.MM.YYYY
, which is also confirmed by extracting from the State Register of Property Rights to Real Estate on registration of ownership rights from
DD.MM.YYYY
.
This information is not included in the administration’s statement.
<address>
and the materials attached to it.
In view of the above, the court finds that there is a dispute of law.
Under such circumstances, the court comes to the conclusion that it is necessary to leave the application without consideration.
Based on the above and guided by Art. Art. 225, 263 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
defined:
the application of the Mariupol city administration for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property shall be left without consideration.
Explain to the applicant that after eliminating the circumstances that served as the basis for leaving the application without consideration, he has the right to again apply to the court with an application in the general manner.
Explain that the applicant has the right to apply to the court to resolve the dispute through litigation.
A private complaint against a court ruling may be filed within 15 days to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Ilyichevsky District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk People's Republic from the date of its issuance.
Judge signature A.A. Martynov
The copy is correct
Judge A.A. Martynov