Case No. 2-1990/2025
UID: 93RS0037-01-2025-002450-53
DEFINITION
on termination of proceedings
Torez April 24, 2025
Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court of the Donetsk People's Republic consisting of
presiding judge Galitsyna T.V.
with the secretary
Full name2
having considered in open court a civil case at the request of the administration of the city district of Torez of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Full name1
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property
installed:
The Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court of the Donetsk People's Republic is processing a civil case at the request of the administration of the city district of Torez of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Full name1
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership to ownerless real estate located at the address: Donetsk
<address>
.
From the applicant’s representative - the city district administration
Full name3
an application was received to refuse the application and terminate the proceedings due to the fact that the residential premises located at the above address currently have no signs of ownerless property.
Consequences of accepting the refusal of the stated requirements and termination of the proceedings, provided for in Art. 221 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the applicant understands.
In accordance with clause 3, part 1, article 221 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court terminates the proceedings in the case if the plaintiff renounces the claim and the refusal is accepted by the court.
Thus, the court has grounds for accepting the refusal of the representative of the administration of the Torez urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic
Full name4
from the application and termination of the proceedings.
Based on the above, guided by Art. Art. 39, 173, 220, 221, 224, 225 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
defined:
Accept the refusal of the representative of the administration of the Torez urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic of the application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate located at the address:
<address>
Proceedings in the case are terminated.
A private complaint against the ruling may be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court of the Donetsk People's Republic within fifteen days from the date of the ruling by the court of first instance.
Judge T.V. Galitsyn