UID 93RS0023-01-2025-009051-04
Case No. 2-201/2026
DEFINITION
March 06, 2026 Yenakievo
Yenakievo Interdistrict Court composed of: presiding judge Bug D.V., with the secretary of the court session Stanovoy A.Yu.,
Having considered in open court a civil case at the request of the Administration of the Yenakievo urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Full name1
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property,
INSTALLED:
The applicant, the Administration of the Yenakievo urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, applied to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate -
<address>
.
Interested person Levitsky V.V. did not appear at the court hearing, provided the court with a statement in which he indicated that he was asking to leave the demands of the Administration of the Urban District of Enakievo of the Donetsk People's Republic to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate without consideration, due to the existence of a dispute about the right, since he is the heir to the specified real estate after the death of its owner Levitskaya V.I.
The applicant's representative of the Administration of the Yenakievo City District of the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing, provided the court with written explanations, in which he indicated that he supported the stated demands, and asked to consider the case in his absence.
The representative of the interested party, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing and submitted to the court an application to consider the case in his absence.
At the same time, as established in the court hearing, the notary of the Yenakievo city notary district, Bezsalym A.G. an inheritance case has been opened for the property of the deceased
DD.MM.YYYY
Levitskaya V.I. based on the statement of Levitsky V.V. on acceptance of an inheritance consisting of an apartment located at:
<address>
.
In accordance with Part 3 of Art. 263 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, it is established that there is a dispute about the right within the jurisdiction of the court, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of claim proceedings.
Thus, based on the foregoing, the court sees a dispute about the law, therefore the stated claims should be left without consideration, having explained to the applicant the right to apply to the court with these claims in the manner of litigation.
Guided by Part 3 of Art. 263, art. 224 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court,
DEFINED:
Stated requirements of the Administration of the Yenakievo Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Full name1
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property, shall be left without consideration.
Explain to the applicant of the Administration of the Yenakievo Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic the right to go to court with the specified requirements in the manner of claim proceedings.
A private complaint or protest from the prosecutor can be filed through the Yenakievo Interdistrict Court to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic within fifteen days from the date of the ruling.
Judge of the Yenakievo Interdistrict Court D.V. Buga