Case No. 2-2154/2025
UID 93RS0037-01-2025-002791-97
DECISION
In the name of the Russian Federation
April 9, 2025 Khartsyzsk
Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court composed of
presiding judge Kobziy E.I.,
with the secretary of the court session Azarova A.A.,
Having considered in open court a civil case at the request of the Administration of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, the interested party: the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, DPR, city. Khartsyzsk,
<address>
,-
U S T A N O V I L:
On March 5, 2025, the administration of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic appealed to the court with a statement in which it asks to recognize for the municipal formation the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, DPR, city. Khartsyzsk,
<address>
.
In support of the stated requirements, the applicant indicated that by resolution of the administration of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic dated April 8, 2024, a commission was created to identify, record, use and accept the right of municipal ownership of residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the municipal formation of the Khartsyzsk urban district. On May 8, 2024, an announcement was posted on the official website of the municipality of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic about the identification of a real estate object on the territory of the municipality of the Khartsyzsk urban district that has signs of ownerlessness, located at the above address, and about the need to appear at the city administration. Khartsyzsk persons who consider themselves the owners of real estate located at the address: Russian Federation, DPR, city district. Khartsyzsk,
<address>
, or having rights to it. In accordance with the requirements of the legislation regulating the procedure for recognizing property as ownerless, it was established that there is no central heating at this address. The debt for payment for gas supply services as of May 1, 2024 is 707.66 rubles, the contract has not been concluded, the last payment is February 1, 2000, the apartment is disconnected from the gas supply network. According to information from Khartsyz Electric Networks, a personal account has been opened at the specified address in the name of
Full name5
, last payment was in September 2013. In accordance with the information of the Branch "Khartsyzsk PUVKH" of the State Unitary Enterprise DPR "WATER OF DONBASS", the personal account is opened on
Full name5
, there is no water meter, payment for services has not been made since December 2019, the debt is 5200.24 rubles. According to information from the DPR State Property Fund dated May 28, 2024, there is no information about the real estate property for the disputed real estate in the Unified Register of State Property of the DPR and objects in respect of which temporary administration (operational management) has been introduced, as well as objects of other forms of property under state control. The Federal Property Management Agency provided information that there is no information in the Register of Federal Property on the disputed object. On June 10, 2024, the City Administration Commission Khartsyzsk drew up an Act on the impossibility of identifying the owner of the property. Also in the city administration Khartsyzsk there is no information about the disputed property in the register of municipal property of the Khartsyzsk urban district. According to the notification of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography, the Unified State Register of Real Estate does not contain information about this object. By resolution of the city administration Khartsyzsk dated June 25, 2024 to the Property Relations Department of the city administration. Khartsyzsk has been instructed to contact the territorial body of the federal executive body that carries out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, and maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate with an application to register the property. According to the notification of the Rosreestr Office for the DPR dated July 19, 2024, extracts from the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the object located at the above address was registered as an ownerless real estate object.
The applicant believes that since within 3 months from the date of registration of the disputed real estate property as ownerless, no one declared their rights to it, there are grounds for recognizing the right of municipal property to it.
The representative of the applicant, the Administration of the Khartsyzsk City District of the Donetsk People's Republic, having been duly notified, did not appear at the court hearing, submitted an application to consider the case in his absence, the case was considered in the absence of the applicant's representative in accordance with Part 5 of Article 167 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
The representative of the interested party, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing, submitted an application to consider the case in his absence, and did not provide any objections to the stated demands.
The case was considered in the absence of a representative of the interested party - the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic in accordance with Part 5 of Article 167 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
Having studied the case materials, the court finds the stated demands to be satisfied for the following reasons.
On November 10, 2023, by decision of the Khartsyzsk City Council of the Donetsk People's Republic No. 8/3, the Regulations on the Administration of the Khartsyzsk Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic were approved, which were amended, and according to clause 2, clause 2.3, the administration has the authority to resolve issues of ownership, use and disposal of property that is in the municipal ownership of the Khartsyzsk Urban District.
Part 1 of Article 215 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation establishes that property owned by right of ownership to urban and rural settlements, as well as other municipal entities, is municipal property.
Part 2 of Article 215 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation establishes that on behalf of the municipality, the rights of the owner are exercised by local government bodies and the persons specified in Article 125 of this Code.
According to paragraph 3 of Article 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, in cases and in the manner provided for by the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, a person can acquire ownership of property that does not have an owner, property whose owner is unknown, or property that the owner has abandoned or to which he has lost ownership on other grounds provided by law.
In accordance with clause 7. Article 12 of the Federal Constitutional Law of October 4, 2022 N 5-FKZ (as amended on December 25, 2023) "On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic to the Russian Federation and the formation of a new subject within the Russian Federation - the Donetsk People's Republic", management of property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, which has signs of ownerlessness and is not classified as federal property, the property of a Russian subject Federation or municipal property, is carried out by the bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic in the manner established by the Government of the Russian Federation, unless otherwise provided by this Federal Constitutional Law. The procedure for recognizing such property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, is applied until January 1, 2028, in agreement with the federal executive body exercising the functions of managing state property.
Clause 1.1 of the Decree of the Acting Head of the Donetsk People's Republic No. 140 dated May 10, 2023 “On the specifics of acquiring the right of state and municipal property to ownerless real estate on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic” established that the body and officials of the Donetsk People’s Republic exercising the powers classified by the legislation of the Russian Federation as the powers of local self-government bodies, until the completion of the formation of local authorities self-government, a local government body of a municipal formation in the Donetsk People's Republic, authorized to manage municipal property, has the right to go to court with a demand for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless buildings, structures (except for linear objects), premises, objects of unfinished construction that do not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown or the owner of which has refused ownership, located on the territory of such a municipal formation, after three months from the date their registration as ownerless real estate by the body carrying out state registration of rights to real estate, unless otherwise provided by this Decree.
In accordance with clause 3.1. Clause 3 of the Decree of the Acting Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of February 27, 2023 No. 64 “On some issues related to the management of property that has signs of ownerlessness, located on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic, and the recognition of such property as ownerless,” Administrations of districts and cities of the Donetsk People’s Republic are bodies for managing property that has signs of ownerlessness and is not classified as federal property, property Donetsk People's Republic or municipal property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, in accordance with the Rules regarding real estate in the form of residential premises, residential buildings, outbuildings.
In accordance with clause 3.2. Decree of the Acting Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of February 27, 2023 No. 64 “On some issues related to the management of property that has signs of ownerlessness, located on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic, and the recognition of such property as ownerless,” until January 1, 2028, in relation to the property specified in subclause 3.1 of this paragraph, the procedure for recognizing it as ownerless, established Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116 “On the identification, recording and acceptance into municipal ownership of ownerless real estate and escheat property” (hereinafter referred to as Decree No. 116), taking into account the changes made by this Decree.
Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic dated April 28, 2021 No. 116 approved the Standard Procedure for identifying, recording and accepting into municipal ownership ownerless real estate and escheat property, which defines a unified procedure for identifying, registering, storing and accepting into municipal ownership ownerless real estate and escheat property identified on the territory of the corresponding administrative-territorial unit of the Donetsk People's Republic.
According to clause 1.2. The standard procedure applies to:
1.2.1. Residential premises, residential buildings, outbuildings and outbuildings that have signs of ownerless things (hereinafter referred to as ownerless real estate).
1.2.2. Escheatable property in the form of residential premises, land plots, as well as buildings, structures, and other real estate objects located on them, shares in the right of common shared ownership of the real estate objects specified in this subclause.
On March 21, 2024, the People's Council of the Donetsk People's Republic adopted the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic."
Article 1 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the peculiarities of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic" establishes that this Law in accordance with the Federal Constitutional Law of October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ "On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic to the Russian Federation and the formation within the Russian Federation of a new subject - the Donetsk People's Republic", the Civil Code of the Russian Federation establishes the specifics of the procedure for identifying, recording and using residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, recognizing the right of municipal ownership of municipal entities of the Donetsk People's Republic to this property, as well as the procedure for disposing of this property.
According to Part 2 of Art. 1 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises that have signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic", this Law applies to residential premises in the form of residential houses, apartments, rooms.
In accordance with Art. 2 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises that have signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic", the signs of ownerless property in relation to residential premises are:
1) failure to pay for residential premises and utilities within one year before the day of identification of residential premises that have signs of ownerlessness;
2) lack of information about the registered ownership of residential premises in the Unified State Register of Real Estate;
3) non-use of residential premises, which, among other things, creates a threat to its safety (or an apartment building if the premises is an apartment, a room in an apartment building), safety for the life and health of other persons (including the rights holders of other premises in an apartment building if the premises is an apartment, a room in an apartment building).
Article 3 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises that have signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic" provides that local government bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic, represented by the bodies authorized by them (hereinafter referred to as the authorized bodies), independently carry out actions to identify, register and accept residential premises that have signs of ownerlessness. ownerless property into the municipal ownership of the municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic, on the territory of which they are located, on the grounds provided by law.
The court found that on May 10, 2024, the commission, composed of members approved by the resolution of the city administration. Khartsyzsk dated April 8, 2024, an inspection report was drawn up for a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness, according to which the object is an apartment at the address:
<address>
, has signs of ownerlessness, there are no signs of economic activity.
In accordance with data from the Khartsyzskteploset branch of the DPR State Unitary Enterprise Donbesteploenergo dated May 28, 2024, there is no centralized heating at the above address.
According to information from TE “Khartsyz Electric Networks” dated May 15, 2024, at:
<address>
, a personal account has been opened in the name
FULL NAME7
The last payment was made in September 2013.
In accordance with the data of the Khartsyzsk Department for Gas Supply and Gasification of the Donbassgaz Group of Companies dated May 14, 2024, no agreement for the supply of natural gas was concluded at the above address; as of May 1, 2024, the debt is 707.66 rubles; the last payment was made on February 1, 2000, the apartment has been disconnected from the gas supply network since February 21, 2021.
According to the Branch “Khartsyzsk Production Department of Water Supply and Sewage Facilities” of the State Unitary Enterprise DPR “WATER OF DONBASS” dated May 24, 2024, a personal account was opened at the above address for M.A. Farafonova; There is no information about registered persons; There is no water meter; no payments since December 2019; the debt for centralized water supply and sanitation amounts to 5,200.24 rubles.
On April 2, 2024, the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography compiled a Notification about the absence of information in the Unified State Register of Real Estate regarding the property located at the address:
<address>
.
On May 8, 2024, an announcement was posted on the official website of the municipality of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic about the identification of a real estate property on the territory of the municipality of the Khartsyzsk urban district, which has signs of ownerlessness, located at the address:
<address>
, and the need to appear at the city administration. Khartsyzsk persons who consider themselves the owners of this property, or who have rights to this property.
On May 14, 2024, the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography issued a notification about the absence of information in the Unified State Register of Real Estate in relation to the above-mentioned property.
According to the notification of the city administration. Khartsyzsk dated May 21, 2024, there is no information in the municipal property register regarding the property located at:
<address>
.
On May 28, 2024, the State Property Fund of the Donetsk People's Republic provided information that as of May 20, 2024, information about the real estate property located at the address: DPR,
<address>
, in the Unified Register of State Property Objects, and objects in respect of which temporary administration has been introduced (operational management), as well as objects of other forms of property under state control, are absent.
In accordance with information from the Territorial Administration-Federal Agency for State Property Management in the Donetsk People's Republic dated May 28, 2024, as of May 27, 2024, there is no information in the federal property register for the real estate property located at the above address.
On June 10, 2024, the commission for identifying, recording, using and recognizing the right of municipal ownership of residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the municipal formation of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic drew up an act on the impossibility of identifying the owner of residential premises with signs of ownerless property located at the address:
<address>
. Prospective owner:
Full name5
Reasons for the impossibility of identifying the owner of the residential premises: failure to appear by a person who considers himself the owner of the residential premises.
Also, on June 10, 2024, the commission drew up a report on the presence of signs of ownerless property in relation to the identified residential premises.
By resolution of the city administration Khartsyzsk dated June 25, 2024 was entrusted to the Property Relations Department of the City Administration. Khartsyzsk to apply to the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintaining the Unified State Register of Real Estate, with an application for registration of residential premises located at the address:
<address>
.
On July 19, the Rosreestr Office for the Donetsk People's Republic drew up a Notice of registration of an ownerless real estate property located at the above address.
Part 1 of Article 10 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic" states that after three months from the date of designation of a residential premises as ownerless by the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintaining the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the authorized body applies to the court with an application to recognize the right of municipal ownership of the municipal formation to this residential premises in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation.
Part 2 of Article 10 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal ownership of municipal entities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises that have signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic" establishes that the right of municipal ownership to residential premises established by a court decision is subject to state registration.
According to Part 3 of Article 10 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal ownership of municipal formations of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic", after the entry into force of a court decision on the recognition of the right of municipal property of a municipal formation to residential premises and the state registration of such a right, the authorized body carries out the acceptance of this residential premises into the municipal property of the municipal formation in the manner determined by the body local government of the relevant municipality, and also carries out other activities provided for by law.
In accordance with Part 4 of Art. 10 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic "On the peculiarities of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipal entities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic", the disposal of residential premises accepted into municipal ownership on the basis of a court decision is carried out in accordance with municipal acts of municipal entities of the Donetsk People's Republic.
During the judicial review of the case, PPK "ROSKADASTR" was provided with an Extract from the Unified State Register of Real Estate, according to which information about the real estate property at the address:
<address>
, registered as an ownerless object on July 19, 2024.
According to the data of the Khartsyzskteploset Branch of the State Unitary Enterprise of the DPR Donbassteploenergo dated March 20, 2025, the “Population” database does not contain an apartment at the address:
<address>
. When transferring personal accounts from the RP SPP "ZuETETS" to the JV "ZuETETS Zugres" in October 2017, and subsequently from the SPP "ZuETETS Zugres" to the Branch "Khartsyzskteploset" in October 2020, this address was not in the list of consumers of heat supply services. In the process of monitoring service consumers, it was revealed that no one lived in this apartment for a long period of time.
From the information of the Khartsyzsk Department of Gas Supply and Gasification dated March 24, 2025, it is clear that gas supply to the specified address has been stopped since February 21, 2021.
According to the report of the UUP OUUP and PDN OMVD of Russia “Khartsyzsky” dated March 18, 2025, it was established that previously at the address:
<address>
, lived an elderly woman who led an antisocial lifestyle, who has not appeared in the apartment for several years. No one lives in this apartment for a long time, no one takes care of the apartment.
In accordance with clause 1 of Article 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, an ownerless thing is a thing that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown or, unless otherwise provided by law, the ownership of which the owner has refused.
By virtue of Part 1 of Article 130 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, immovable things (real estate, real estate) include land plots, subsoil plots and everything that is firmly connected to the land, that is, objects whose movement without disproportionate damage to their purpose is impossible, including buildings, structures, unfinished construction objects.
Thus, the court found that the above-mentioned real estate object does not have an owner; more than three months have passed since the moment of registration as an ownerless real estate object, and no one has declared their rights to it.
By virtue of Article 12 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, the protection of civil rights can be carried out through the recognition of rights.
Part 2 of Article 293 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation establishes that the court, having recognized that the immovable thing does not have an owner or the owner of the immovable thing is unknown and it has been registered in the prescribed manner, makes a decision to recognize the right of municipal property or the property of a federal city of Moscow, St. Petersburg or Sevastopol to this thing.
Taking into account the circumstances established by the court, the position of the interested parties, the absence of violations when registering the above-mentioned property as ownerless, the court comes to the conclusion that the stated requirements have been satisfied.
Guided by Article 194-199, 293 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the DPR Law “On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People’s Republic to residential premises that have signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic,” the court
DECISION:
Stated demands of the Administration of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested party: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, DPR, city of. Khartsyzsk,
<address>
- satisfy.
Recognize as a municipal entity
<address>
Khartsyzsk Donetsk People's Republic the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, city. Khartsyzsk,
<address>
.
The decision can be appealed to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court within a month from the date of its adoption in final form.
The final decision was made on April 9, 2025.
Judge of the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court E.I. Kobziy