2-2176/2026
UID: 93RS0037-01-2026-002620-44
DEFINITION
April 30, 2026 Khartsyzsk
Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court composed of
Presiding judge Kobziy E.I.,
With the secretary of the court session Azarova A.A.,
Having considered in open court a civil case brought by the Administration of the Ilovaisk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Full name1
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate object, -
INSTALLED:
The administration of the urban district of Ilovaisk of the Donetsk People's Republic filed a petition in which it asks to recognize for the municipal formation the urban district of Ilovaisk of the Donetsk People's Republic the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, urban district of Ilovaisk,
<address>
.
The court hearing received a statement from the applicant's representative, in which he asks to accept the refusal of the application and terminate the proceedings in the case.
According to Part 1 of Article 220 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court terminates the proceedings in the case if the plaintiff has abandoned the claim and the refusal is accepted by the court.
The court considers it possible to accept the refusal of the application, since this does not contradict the law and does not violate the rights and interests of other persons, and terminate the civil proceedings.
Based on the above, guided by Art. Art. 220.221 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court –
DEFINED:
Accept the refusal of the Administration of the urban district of Ilovaisk of the Donetsk People's Republic of the application for recognition of the municipal formation of the urban district of Ilovaisk of the Donetsk People's Republic the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, urban district of Ilovaisk,
<address>
.
To terminate the civil case proceedings, at the request of the Administration of the Ilovaisk City District of the Donetsk People's Republic, the Administration filed a statement in which it asks to recognize for the municipality of the Ilovaisk City District of the Donetsk People's Republic the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Ilovaisk City District,
<address>
.
Explain that repeated appeal to the court in a dispute between the same parties, about the same subject and on the same grounds is not allowed, with the exception of termination of proceedings in the case of protecting the rights and legitimate interests of a group of persons in the manner established by part seven of Article 244 24 of this Code.
A private complaint against the ruling may be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court within fifteen days from the date of the ruling.
Judge of the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court E.I. Kobziy