Case No. 2-2251/2025
UID: 93RS0008-01-2025-002825-77
SOLUTION
In the name of the Russian Federation
October 01, 2025 Mariupol
Ordzhonikidze District Court of the city of Mariupol, consisting of:
presiding judge – Miterev E.E.,
with the secretary of the court session Ruban K.I.,
Having considered in open court a civil case at the request of the administration of the city district of Mariupol, the interested party, the Office of Rosreestr for the Donetsk People's Republic, on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property,
INSTALLED:
The administration of the city district of Mariupol filed a statement in court, in which it asked to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, city district of Mariupol,
<address>
, total area
<data taken>
sq.m.
In support of the stated requirements, it is stated that the property has signs of an ownerless immovable property, namely, there is no information about the owner, during the search the owner was not identified, the specified object does not belong to federal property, the city administration performed the necessary procedure for recognizing the object as ownerless in accordance with the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic of March 21, 2024 No. 66-RZ, Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic dated 04/28/2021 No. 116, articles 225, 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation.
Taking into account the above, the applicant applied to the court to declare the object ownerless and to recognize the ownership of the object.
The applicant’s representative for the Mariupol city administration did not appear at the court hearing; the case file contains a request to consider the civil case without their participation and satisfy the stated demands in full.
The interested party, the Department of Rosreestr for the DPR, did not appear at the court hearing, for reasons unknown to the court; they were duly notified of the time and place of consideration of the case; they asked to consider the case in their absence.
Taking into account the provisions of Article 167 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court considers it possible to consider a civil case in the absence of the parties who failed to appear.
Having examined the case materials, the court believes that the stated requirements must be satisfied on the following grounds.
According to paragraph 3 of Art. 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, in cases and in the manner provided for by this Code, a person may acquire ownership of property that does not have an owner, property whose owner is unknown, or property that the owner has abandoned or to which he has lost ownership on other grounds provided by law.
In accordance with paragraph 1 of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerless is a thing that does not have an owner, the owner of which is unknown, or the right of ownership to which the owner has refused.
Based on the provisions of paragraph 3 of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerless real estate is accepted for registration by the body that carries out state registration of rights to real estate, upon application from the local government body in whose territory they are located. After a year has passed from the date of registration of an ownerless immovable property, the body authorized to manage municipal property may apply to the court with a request to recognize the right of municipal ownership of this thing. An ownerless immovable property, not recognized by a court decision as having come into municipal ownership, may be again taken into possession, use and disposal by the owner who abandoned it, or acquired into ownership by virtue of acquisitive prescription.
By virtue of Article 236 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, a citizen or legal entity may renounce the right of ownership of property belonging to him by declaring this or taking other actions that definitely indicate his removal from ownership, use and disposal of property without the intention of retaining any rights to this property.
Recognition of ownership of an ownerless immovable property is carried out in a special proceeding upon the application of the body authorized to manage municipal property, in accordance with Art. Art. 290-293 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
In accordance with Part 1 of Art. 4 of the Federal Constitutional Law of October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ “On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic into the Russian Federation and the formation of a new subject within the Russian Federation - the Donetsk People's Republic” (hereinafter referred to as Law No. 5-FKZ) legislative and other regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic from the date of admission to the Russian Federation of the Donetsk People's Republic and the formation of of the Russian Federation of a new subject, unless otherwise provided by Law No. 5-FKZ.
According to Part 2 of Art. 4 of Law No. 5-FKZ, the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic until the end of the transition period or until the adoption of the relevant regulatory legal act of the Russian Federation and (or) the regulatory legal act of the Donetsk People's Republic.
At the same time, Art. 21 of Law No. 5-FKZ establishes the specifics of regulating relations in the sphere of real estate turnover on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic.
In accordance with clause 2, part 1, art. 21 of Law No. 5-FKZ, until January 01, 2028, on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic may establish features of the regulation of property relations, including the circulation of land, in agreement with the federal executive body performing the functions of managing state property.
By virtue of Part 7 of Art. 12 of Law No. 5-FKZ, the procedure for recognizing property that is not classified as federal property, the property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, is applied until January 1, 2028 in agreement with the federal executive body performing the functions of managing state property.
By virtue of the above norm, Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation dated December 28, 2022 No. 2474 “On approval of the Rules for the management of bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic, Lugansk People's Republic, Zaporozhye region and Kherson region having signs of ownerlessness and not classified as federal property, property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property, located on the territory of these constituent entities of the Russian Federation” was adopted, Donetsk Law of the People's Republic of March 21, 2024 No. 66-RZ “On the peculiarities of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal ownership of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic” (hereinafter referred to as Law No. 66-RZ), amendments were made to the Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116 “On the identification, recording and acceptance into municipal ownership of ownerless real estate and escheat property.”
In order to accept, record and register ownerless real estate escheatable property, increase the efficiency of its use, the administration of the city of Mariupol adopted an order dated 12/05/2023 No. 766 “On approval of the Procedure for identifying, recording and accepting ownerless real estate and escheatable property into municipal ownership on the administrative territory of the municipality of the city of Mariupol” (as amended).
In accordance with paragraph 2.12 of the Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116 “On the identification, registration and acceptance into municipal ownership of ownerless real estate and escheat property”, in order to register a real estate object as ownerless, the administration issues a corresponding order and applies to the territorial body of the federal executive body that carries out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate, with an application for registration of an immovable property as ownerless and other documents provided for by current legislation.
A similar rule is enshrined in paragraph 2 of part 1 of article of Law No. 66-RZ.
It was established that on September 27, 2024, a commission inspection of the property was carried out, a report was drawn up, and during the inspection the owner was not identified.
The city administration adopted order No. 572 dated October 30, 2024 “On registering real estate as ownerless,” by which the object was registered as ownerless.
According to an extract from the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the property in question was registered as ownerless.
Utilities are not consumed, from the photographic materials it follows that the property is not suitable for inspection, information about the property is posted on the Internet, and also that a commission inspection of the property was carried out.
There is no information about the registration of legal entities at the specified address.
By order of the administration of the city of Mariupol dated May 22, 2025 No. 825 “On recognizing real estate objects as ownerless and including them in the register of ownerless real estate objects in the territory of the municipality of the urban district of Mariupol,” the property in question was included in the register of ownerless real estate objects in the territory of Mariupol.
Within three months from the moment the object was registered as ownerless, no one declared their rights to this object.
According to Art. 2 of Law No. 66-RZ, signs of ownerless property in relation to residential premises are:
1) failure to pay for residential premises and utilities within one year from the date of identification of residential premises that have signs of ownerlessness;
2) lack of information about the registered ownership of residential premises in the Unified State Register of Real Estate;
3) non-use of residential premises, which, among other things, will create a threat to its safety (or an apartment building if the premises are an apartment, a room in an apartment building), safety for the life and health of other persons (including the rights holders of other premises in an apartment building if the premises are an apartment, a room in an apartment building).
In accordance with Art. 11 of Law No. 66-RZ, if the owner (owners, if the residential premises are in common ownership) of the residential premises applied to the authorized body with an application to renounce the ownership of the residential premises belonging to him (them), establishing signs of ownerless property in relation to such premises is not required. In this case, recognition of such residential premises as ownerless is carried out in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation, taking into account the features established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic.
In accordance with part 1 of Art. 10 of Law No. 66-RZ, after three months from the date of registration of a residential premises as ownerless by the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the authorized body applies to the court with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the municipality to this residential premises in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation.
Thus, assessing the collected evidence according to the rules of Art. 67 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation in the aggregate, guided by the provisions of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, Law No. 5-FKZ, and also guided by the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic of March 21, 2024 No. 66-RZ, Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116, the court comes to the conclusion that the owner of the real estate located at: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Mariupol urban district,
<address>
, total area
<data taken>
sq.m., voluntarily abandoned the real estate, the real estate was registered by the body carrying out state registration of rights to real estate, more than three months have passed since the property was registered, the above property is an ownerless item.
From the content of the above norms it follows that the legislation of the Russian Federation provides for the possibility of terminating the right of ownership of a particular property by the owner performing actions indicating his renunciation of his property right.
The case materials contain copies of title documents provided to the applicant by Kovaleva
FULL NAME7
from which it follows that Pashkova
Full name8
and Pashkov
Full name9
. are the owners of the residential premises, but there are no title documents confirming the ownership of the residential premises by Kovaleva
Full name10
not available.
In this regard, the court considers her rights not to be affected or violated.
Based on the foregoing, the court comes to the conclusion that it is necessary to satisfy the stated requirements, recognizing the right of municipal ownership of the administration of the city of Mariupol to an ownerless immovable property located at the address:
<address>
, total area
<data taken>
sq.m.
Based on the above, guided by Art. Art. 57-61, 194-199, 290-293 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
DECIDED:
the application of the administration of the city district of Mariupol for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate is to be satisfied.
Recognize the right of municipal ownership represented by the administration of the city district of Mariupol to an ownerless real estate property - an apartment located at the address:
<address>
, total area
<data taken>
sq.m.
An appeal against the court decision can be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Ordzhonikidze District Court of Mariupol within a month from the date the court decision was made in final form - October 1, 2025.
Judge E.E. Miterev