Case No. 2-225/2024
93RS0023-01-2024-009532-97
DEFINITION
On January 14, 2025, the Yenakievo Interdistrict Court, composed of: presiding judge - Stasenko S.V., with a secretary - Timokhina O.Yu., having considered, in preparing the case for trial in the courtroom of the city of Yenakievo, a civil case on the application of the Administration of the city district of Yenakievo of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property, the interested party - Management Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
U S T A N O V I L:
The administration of the Yenakievo urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic applied to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property, the interested party is the Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic.
The applicant's representative, having been duly notified, did not appear at the court hearing about the day, time and place of the hearing, and submitted a statement in which she asked to terminate the proceedings.
In accordance with the provisions of Art. 220 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court terminates the proceedings if the applicant refuses the application and the refusal is accepted by the court.
Since the representative of the applicant, the Administration of the Yenakievo Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic, refused the application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate, the interested party is the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, the refusal was accepted by the court, the proceedings in this case should be terminated.
In accordance with Art. 221 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, to explain to the parties that repeated appeal to the court in a dispute between the same parties, about the same subject and on the same grounds is not allowed.
Guided by Art. Art. 220-221, 224-225, 331 – 332 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation,
O P R E D E L I L:
Proceedings in a civil case on the application of the Administration of the Yenakievo urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate, the interested party - the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic - shall be terminated.
Explain to the parties that in accordance with Art. 221 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, repeated appeal to the court in a dispute between the same parties, about the same subject and on the same grounds is not allowed.
A private complaint or a prosecutor’s submission may be filed against the court’s ruling to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People’s Republic through the Yenakievo Interdistrict Court within fifteen days from the date of the ruling by the court of first instance.
Judge of the Yenakievo Interdistrict Court S.V. Stasenko