UID 93RS0005-01-2025-011282-85
Case No. 2-237/2026
G-2.232
SOLUTION
IN THE NAME OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
On January 28, 2026, the Central City District Court of the city of Makeevka, Donetsk People’s Republic, consisting of:
presiding judge - judge Maksimova N.N.,
under secretary Vetrova A.V.,
having considered in open court in a courtroom in the city of Makeevka a civil case at the request of the Administration of the urban district of Makeevka, the interested party: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic "On recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property"
U S T A N O V I L:
The administration of the urban district of Makeyevka filed an application “On recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property” to the court, the interested party is the Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic. He motivates his demands by the fact that on September 25, 2025, the real estate is an unfinished construction project with an area of 700 sq.m., located at the address:
<address>
cadastral number
№
, accepted by the Rosreestr Office for the Donetsk People's Republic to be registered as ownerless. Other owners are unknown. After the expiration of a three-month period from the date of registration of the object as ownerless, no individuals or legal entities have made any claims regarding the object that is the subject of this application, that is, there is no dispute about the right. The applicant asks the court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of the municipal formation of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic to ownerless real estate - an unfinished construction site located at the address:
<address>
cadastral number
№
At the court hearing, the representative of the applicant - the Administration of the Makeevka Urban District Shulyak E.V. did not appear, submitted an application to the court in which she asked to consider the case without her participation, she supported the stated demands in full.
The representative of the interested party, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing, according to the submitted petition, and asked to consider the case in his absence.
The court, having examined the case materials, came to the conclusion that the demands of the Administration of the Makeyevka Urban District must be satisfied on the following grounds:
According to clause 6, part 1, art. 262 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, by way of special proceedings, the court considers cases of recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property.
According to Part 1 of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerless is a thing that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown, or, unless otherwise provided by law, the owner of which has renounced the right of ownership.
Clause 3 of Art. 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation provides that a person can acquire ownership of property that does not have an owner, property whose owner is unknown, or property that the owner has abandoned or to which he has lost ownership on other grounds provided by law.
By the Decree of the Administration of the Makeyevka Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic, an unfinished construction site located at the address:
<address>
registered as ownerless.
According to an extract from the Unified State Register of Real Estate, at the address:
<address>
located object of unfinished construction, cadastral number
№
. Copyright holder: Administration of the Makeevka urban district. Registered as an ownerless property on September 25, 2025.
From notification 10763/04.1.2-10 it is clear that in the Register of Municipally Owned Objects there is information regarding an unfinished construction project located at the address:
<address>
absent.
According to the Makeevskoye PUVKH branch of the DPR State Unitary Enterprise “Water of Donbass”, at the address:
<address>
, there is no contract, currently there is no information about the owner.
According to information from the Separate Division "Energosbyt Donetsk" LLC "Energosbyt Donetsk", in relation to the facility at the address:
<address>
There are no contractual relations, there is no debt.
According to information from the branch of Chernomorneftegaz LLC, at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chekhova str., 9a, the facility is not connected to the gas supply system.
From the response of the State Unitary Enterprise DPR "Donbassteploenergo" it follows that in relation to the facility at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chekhova St., 9a, the contract was not concluded, since thermal energy is not supplied to this facility, there is no information about the owner.
According to the findings of the inspection report on the technical condition of a residential premises, which has signs of being ownerless, dated 07/01/2025, the object located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chekhova St., 9a - is an unfinished building, there are no windows and doors, access is free. The owner cannot be identified.
The official website of the DPR on the Internet information and telecommunications network contains information about the real estate property located at the address:
<address>
in order to identify and inform the owner of real estate.
According to Article 4 of the Federal Constitutional Law of the Russian Federation dated October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ, “On the admission into the Russian Federation of the Donetsk People's Republic and the formation within the Russian Federation of a new subject - the Donetsk People's Republic,” legislative and other regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic from the date of admission to the Russian Federation of the Donetsk People's Republic and the formation of a new entity within the Russian Federation subject, unless otherwise provided by this Federal Constitutional Law.
Regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic until the end of the transition period or until the adoption of the corresponding regulatory legal act of the Russian Federation and (or) the regulatory legal act of the Donetsk People's Republic.
According to Part 7 of Article 12 of Law No. 5-FKZ, management of property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, which has signs of ownerlessness and is not classified as federal property, the property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property, is carried out by the authorities of the Donetsk People's Republic in the manner established by the Government of the Russian Federation, unless otherwise provided by this Federal Constitutional Law. The procedure for recognizing such property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, is applied until January 1, 2028, in agreement with the federal executive body exercising the functions of managing state property.
According to clause 1.2 of the Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of May 10, 2023 No. 140, the executive body of the Donetsk People's Republic authorized to manage state property has the right to apply to the court with a demand for recognition of the right of state ownership of the objects defined in subclause 1.1 of this clause (with the exception of residential premises, outbuildings intended to satisfy citizens' household and other needs), after three months from the date of their registration as ownerless real estate by the body carrying out state registration of rights to real estate.
By Decree of the Acting Head of the Donetsk People's Republic dated 02.27.2023 No. 64 “On some issues related to the management of property that has signs of ownerlessness, located on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic, and the recognition of such property as ownerless,” the Government of the Donetsk People’s Republic is vested with the authority to establish (adopt) a procedure for recognizing as ownerless property that has signs of ownerlessness and not classified as federal property, property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, with the exception of real estate in the form of residential premises, residential buildings, and outbuildings.
In accordance with paragraphs. 3.1. Clause 3 of the Decree of the Acting Head of the Donetsk People's Republic "On some issues related to the management of property that has signs of ownerlessness, located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, and the recognition of such property as ownerless" dated 02.27.2023 No. 64, the administration of the city of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic is the body for managing property that has signs of ownerlessness in accordance with the Rules, approved by Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation dated December 28, 2022 No. 2474 “On approval of the Rules for the management of bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic, Lugansk People's Republic, Zaporozhye region and Kherson region having signs of ownerlessness and not classified as federal property, property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property of property located on the territories of these constituent entities of the Russian Federation”
pp. 3.2. clause 3 of Decree 64 determines that until 01/01/2028 in relation to the property specified in clause. 3.1 of this paragraph, the procedure for recognizing it as ownerless is applied, established by Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116 “On the identification, recording and acceptance into municipal ownership of ownerless real estate and escheat property” (hereinafter referred to as Procedure 116), taking into account the amendments made.
Thus, when carrying out the functions of managing property that has signs of ownerlessness, the District Administration performed the functions of identifying, recording and accepting ownerless things into municipal ownership in accordance with the requirements of Procedure 116.
In accordance with clause 2.2 of Order 116, the administrations of districts and cities of the Donetsk People's Republic independently carry out actions to identify, record and accept ownerless real estate into the municipal ownership of the administrative-territorial units of the Donetsk People's Republic on the territory of which they are located.
In accordance with clause 2.3 of Procedure 116, information about immovable things that have signs of being ownerless can be received by the City Administration from legal entities and individuals who have become aware of property located on the territory of the city of Makeyevka, which does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown.
In accordance with paragraphs. 2.9.3. And. 2.9. Order 116 The city administration carried out all the prescribed measures to identify immovable property that has signs of being ownerless and falls under the Standard Procedure.
As can be seen from the case materials, any individuals and legal entities have claims regarding a real estate property - an unfinished construction facility located at the address:
<address>
did not declare, that is, there is no dispute about the right. These circumstances give the administration of the Makeyevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic the right to apply to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property in a special proceeding.
The court also found that, despite the implementation by the administration of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic of all necessary measures to place in the media information regarding real estate - an unfinished construction site located at the address:
<address>
for which municipal management has been introduced, its owner has not yet appeared.
Guided by Art. Art. 3, 22, 194 - 198, 262 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court,
DECISION:
Statement of the Administration of the City District of Makeyevka, interested party: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic “On recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property” - to satisfy.
Recognize the right of municipal property of the municipality of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic to ownerless real estate - an unfinished construction site located at the address:
<address>
cadastral number
№
.
The court decision can be appealed on appeal through the court of first instance within a month from the date of adoption of the court decision in final form.
Judge:
The reasoned decision was made on February 10, 2026.