Case No. 2-2675/2025
UID 93RS0037-01-2025-003730-93
DEFINITION
May 26, 2025 Khartsyzsk
Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court composed of
presiding judge Kobziy E.I.,
with the secretary of the court session Azarova A.A.,
having considered in open court a civil case at the request of the Administration of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address:
<address>
INSTALLED:
The administration of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic filed a petition on March 27, 2025, asking to recognize the Khartsyzsk urban district as a municipal entity.
Full name1
Republic right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address:
<address>
.
In support of the stated requirements, the applicant indicated that by resolution of the administration of the Khartsyzsk urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic dated April 8, 2024, a commission was created to identify, record, use and accept the right of municipal ownership of residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the municipal formation of the Khartsyzsk urban district. On March 14, 2024, an announcement was posted on the official website of the municipality of the urban district of Khartsyzsk of the Donetsk People's Republic about the identification of a real estate object on the territory of the municipality of the urban district of Khartsyzsk, which has signs of being ownerless, located at the above address, and about the need to appear at the administration of the city. Khartsyzsk persons who consider themselves the owners of real estate or have rights to it. On April 15, 2024, the City Administration Commission Khartsyzsk drew up an Act on the impossibility of identifying the owner of the property. On April 24, 2024, the commission drew up an inspection report for the above-mentioned property. In pursuance of the requirements of the legislation regulating the procedure for recognizing property as ownerless, it was established that there was arrears in payment for housing and communal services at this address. According to information from the DPR State Property Fund dated March 19, 2024, there is no information about the real estate property for the disputed real estate in the Unified Register of State Property of the DPR and objects in respect of which temporary administration (operational management) has been introduced, as well as objects of other forms of property under state control. The Federal Property Management Agency provided information that there is no information in the Register of Federal Property on the disputed object. Also in the city administration Khartsyzsk there is no information about the disputed property in the register of municipal property of the Khartsyzsk urban district. According to the notification of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography, the Unified State Register of Real Estate does not contain information about this object. By resolution of the city administration Khartsyzsk dated May 2, 2024 to the Property Relations Department of the city administration. Khartsyzsk has been instructed to contact the territorial body of the federal executive body that carries out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, and maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate with an application to register the property. According to the notification of the Rosreestr Office for the DPR dated July 31, 2024, extracts from the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the object located at the above address was registered as an ownerless real estate property.
The applicant believes that since within 3 months from the date of registration of the disputed real estate property as ownerless, no one declared their rights to it, there are grounds for recognizing the right of municipal property to it.
The representative of the applicant, the Administration of the Khartsyzsk City District of the Donetsk People's Republic, having been duly notified, did not appear at the court hearing, submitted an application to consider the case in his absence, the case was considered in the absence of the applicant's representative in accordance with Part 5 of Article 167 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
The representative of the interested party, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing, was duly notified of the time and place of the trial, and did not provide any objections to the stated demands or applications to postpone the trial.
The case was considered in the absence of a representative of the interested party - the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic in accordance with Article 167 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
Having studied the case materials, the court comes to the following conclusion:
On November 10, 2023, by decision of the Khartsyzsk City Council of the Donetsk People's Republic No. 8/3, the Regulations on the Administration of the Khartsyzsk Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic were approved, which were amended, and according to clause 2, clause 2.3, the administration has the authority to resolve issues of ownership, use and disposal of property that is in the municipal ownership of the Khartsyzsk Urban District.
Part 1 of Article 215 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation establishes that property owned by right of ownership to urban and rural settlements, as well as other municipal entities, is municipal property.
Part 2 of Article 215 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation establishes that on behalf of the municipality, the rights of the owner are exercised by local government bodies and the persons specified in Article 125 of this Code.
According to paragraph 3 of Article 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, in cases and in the manner provided for by the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, a person can acquire ownership of property that does not have an owner, property whose owner is unknown, or property that the owner has abandoned or to which he has lost ownership on other grounds provided by law.
According to the Federal Constitutional Law of October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ “On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic into the Russian Federation and the formation of a new subject within the Russian Federation - the Donetsk People's Republic” (hereinafter referred to as the Federal Constitutional Law), the Treaty between the Russian Federation and the Donetsk People's Republic on the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic into the Russian Federation and the formation of a new entity within the Russian Federation, Donetsk The People's Republic is considered admitted to the Russian Federation on September 30, 2022.
In accordance with Part 7 of Art. 12 of the Federal Constitutional Law, management of property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, which has signs of ownerlessness and is not classified as federal property, the property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property, is carried out by the bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic in the manner established by the Government of the Russian Federation, unless otherwise provided by this Federal Constitutional Law. The procedure for recognizing such property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, is applied until January 1, 2028, in agreement with the federal executive body exercising the functions of managing state property.
In order to implement Part 7 of Art. 12 of this Federal Constitutional Law, the Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic dated May 10, 2023 No. 140 “On the peculiarities of acquiring the right of state and municipal property to ownerless real estate on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic” was adopted, which established that the body and officials of the Donetsk People’s Republic exercising powers classified by the legislation of the Russian Federation as the powers of local self-government bodies, until the completion of the formation of local authorities self-government, a local government body of a municipal formation in the Donetsk People's Republic, authorized to manage municipal property, has the right to go to court with a demand for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless buildings, structures (except for linear objects), premises, objects of unfinished construction that do not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown or the owner of which has refused ownership, located on the territory of such a municipal formation, after three months from the date their registration as ownerless real estate by the body carrying out state registration of rights to real estate, unless otherwise provided by this Decree (clause 1.1 of Decree No. 140).
On the date of admission of the Donetsk People's Republic to the Russian Federation, Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic dated April 28, 2021 No. 116 “On the identification, registration and acceptance into municipal ownership of ownerless real estate and escheatable property” was in force on the territory of the subject, which approved the Standard procedure for identifying, recording and accepting ownerless real estate and escheatable property into municipal ownership, currently in force time as amended, taking into account the changes made by Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic No. 64 of February 27, 2023, which came into force on August 18, 2023.
Clause 1 of the Standard Procedure establishes that it was adopted to determine a unified procedure for identifying, registering, managing and accepting into municipal ownership ownerless real estate and escheat property identified on the territory of the corresponding administrative-territorial unit of the Donetsk People's Republic.
The subject of regulation of this Procedure are residential premises, garden houses, outbuildings intended to satisfy citizens' household and other needs, having signs of ownerless things, escheated property in the form of residential premises, land plots, as well as buildings, structures, and other real estate objects located on them, shares in the right of common shared ownership of these real estate objects, as well as movable property identified on such real estate objects.
The specified Standard Procedure provides for the registration as ownerless property of residential premises, garden houses, outbuildings intended to satisfy citizens' household and other needs, that is, real estate that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown, or the ownership of which the owner has refused, including by ceasing to bear the burden of maintaining such property (in particular, through non-payment of utilities for the last three years), provided that the owner has been present for the last six months outside the territory of the Russian Federation (clause 2.3 of the Standard Procedure).
According to para. 2 clause 1.3 of the Standard Procedure, an individual or legal entity may renounce the ownership of property owned by him by declaring this or taking other actions that definitely indicate his removal from the possession, use and disposal of property without the intention of retaining any rights to this property, including by ceasing to bear the burden of maintaining such property (in particular, through non-payment of utilities for the last three years), provided that the owner has been outside the territory for the last six months Russian Federation.
By the Decree of the People's Council of the Donetsk People's Republic of March 21, 2024, within the framework of the powers and tasks established by the Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation of December 29, 2022 No. 2501 “On approval of the features of management and disposal of individual property located in the territories of the Donetsk People's Republic, Lugansk People's Republic, Zaporozhye region and Kherson region, located in the state or municipal property, as well as the delimitation of property between the Russian Federation, each of the specified constituent entities of the Russian Federation and its municipalities", Law No. 66-RZ was adopted "On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipal entities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises that have signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic" (hereinafter referred to as Law No. 66-RZ), which established the specifics of the procedure for identifying, recording and using residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, recognition of the right of municipal ownership of municipal formations of the Donetsk People's Republic to this property, as well as the procedure for disposing of this property.
In accordance with Part 2 of Art. 1 of this Law, its effect extends to residential premises in the form of residential buildings, apartments, rooms.
According to Art. 2 of Law No. 66-RZ, the signs of ownerless property in relation to residential premises are: failure to pay for residential premises and utilities within one year before the date of identification of a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness; lack of information about the registered ownership of residential premises in the Unified State Register of Real Estate; non-use of residential premises, which, among other things, creates a threat to its safety (or an apartment building if the premises is an apartment, a room in an apartment building), safety for the life and health of other persons (including the rights holders of other premises in an apartment building if the premises is an apartment, a room in an apartment building).
In case of receiving information about residential premises that have signs of ownerless property, the authorized body in accordance with Part 3 of Art. 5 of Law No. 66-RZ, within 10 calendar days from the date of discovery of a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness, places on the official website of the local government body on the Internet, as well as in accessible places at the entrance to the residential premises, an announcement about the identification of a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness, and about the need for personal appearance before the authorized body of the person (persons) who considers themselves its owner or has (have) rights to it, within 30 calendar days from the date of placement of such an advertisement with the following documents:
a) a passport of a citizen of the Russian Federation or other identification document;
b) title documents for residential premises.
Part 4 of the same article provides that after 30 calendar days from the date of publication of the announcement, in the event of the absence of a person (persons) who considers themselves the owner of the residential premises, and after receiving information indicating that the residential premises, which have signs of ownerless property, do not have an owner:
within 5 working days, draws up a report on the impossibility of identifying the owner of this residential premises;
organizes, if necessary, in the prescribed manner, the carrying out of cadastral work in relation to residential premises that have signs of being ownerless, as well as assigning a postal address to it;
carries out, if necessary, the collection of other documents confirming the presence of signs of ownerless property in the residential premises, including documents indicating the absence of residents in such residential premises (inspection reports, extracts from house books, personal accounts, etc.);
organizes a commission inspection of a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness (with an on-site visit), with the involvement of the necessary representatives of the executive bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic and territorial bodies of the federal executive authorities, organizations (as agreed) and with the drawing up of an appropriate act, which indicates the details of the act, the date of the inspection, information about the persons involved, the location, technical and other condition of the residential premises, an inventory of furniture, household appliances and other movable property property located in the residential premises, as well as other information indicating the presence of signs of ownerlessness of the residential premises.
By virtue of Art. 9 of Law No. 66-RZ, the procedure for recognizing ownerless residential premises as municipal property is terminated upon personal announcement of the owner of such premises and confirmation of ownership of such premises on the basis of the documents provided for in paragraphs. pp. “a” and “b” clause 3 of Art. 5 of this Law (passport of a citizen of the Russian Federation or other identification document; title documents for residential premises).
In accordance with Part 1 of Art. 10 of Law No. 66-RZ, after three months from the date of registration of the residential premises as ownerless by the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the authorized body applies to the court with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the municipal formation to this residential premises in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation.
Similar provisions are set out in clause 3.1 of the Standard Procedure, approved by Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic No. 116 dated April 28, 2021, which establishes that after three months from the date of registration of an ownerless real estate property, the administration is obliged to file a claim in court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of this thing.
Moreover, by virtue of clause 3.2 of the Standard Procedure, if before the acceptance of an ownerless immovable property into municipal ownership, a person (persons) who considers themselves to be its owner appears, it is the responsibility of such person to prove ownership in court.
By-laws of the Donetsk People's Republic regulating the issues of identifying, staging, accounting for ownerless property are aimed at resolving issues of introducing state management of ownerless real estate, ensuring their safety and determining the optimal way to manage them in accordance with established standards before the owner is declared or before the form of ownership of the said property is established in court.
Chapter 33 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation regulates the procedure for considering cases on recognizing a movable thing as ownerless or recognizing ownership of an ownerless immovable thing.
According to clause 6, part 1, art. 262, part 2 art. 290 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, an application for recognition of the right of ownership of an ownerless immovable property is considered by the court in a special proceeding.
In accordance with the data of the Khartsyzsk Department of Gas Supply and Gasification of the Donbassgaz Group of Companies dated March 13, 2024, at the address:
<address>
, there is no gas supply.
In accordance with the data of the Khartsyzskteploset branch of the State Unitary Enterprise of the DPR Donbassteploenergo dated March 19, 2024, at the address:
<address>
, the amount of debt for heat supply services as of March 1, 2024 is 25,911.79 rubles. The last payment was April 12, 2022 (withholding was made by court decision).
According to information from TE "Khartsyz Electric Networks" dated March 13, 2024, at
<address>
, a personal account has been opened in the name
Full name4
The debt under the act of violation of PPEEN amounts to 8877.55 rubles. The last payment was in December 2013.
According to the Branch “Khartsyzsk Production Department of Water Supply and Sewage Facilities of the State Unitary Enterprise DPR “Water of Donbass”, at the address:
<address>
, a personal account has been opened in the name
Full name5
There is no information about registered persons. As of April 1, 2024, there is arrears in payment for water supply and sanitation services in the amount of 1,574.27 rubles. There are no payments.
In accordance with the information of the Municipal Unitary Enterprise "GSEZ Khartsyzsk" dated March 13, 2024 at the above address, the debt for rent is 14,116.67 rubles, for the removal of solid waste - 791.23 rubles.
According to the certificate from the city administration. Khartsyzsk dated March 12, 2024, real estate located at:
<address>
, is not included in the Register of Municipal Property Objects of the Khartsyzsk City Administration due to the lack of appropriate grounds. There is no information on ownership of the above object.
The court found that on March 14, 2024, information was posted on the official website of the municipality of the Khartsyzsk urban district about the identification of a real estate property on the territory of the municipality of the Khartsyzsk urban district that had signs of being ownerless, located at the above address, and about the need to appear at the city administration. Khartsyzsk persons who consider themselves the owners of real estate or have rights to it.
In accordance with information from the Territorial Administration-Federal Agency for State Property Management in the Donetsk People's Republic dated March 14, 2024, there is no information in the federal property register for the real estate property located at the above address.
On March 19, 2024, the State Property Fund of the Donetsk People's Republic provided information that as of March 18, 2024, information about the real estate property located at the address:
<address>
There is no unified register of state-owned objects and objects in respect of which temporary administration (operational management) has been introduced, as well as objects of other forms of ownership under state control.
On March 28, 2024, the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography issued a notification about the absence of information in the Unified State Register of Real Estate in relation to the above-mentioned property.
On April 15, 2024, the commission for identifying, recording, using and recognizing the right of municipal ownership of residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the municipal formation of the Khartsyzsk urban district in the composition approved by the resolution of the administration of the city. Khartsyzsk dated April 8, 2024, an Act was drawn up on the impossibility of identifying the owner of a residential premises that has signs of ownerless property located at the address:
<address>
. Reasons for the impossibility of identifying the owner of the residential premises: failure to appear by a person who considers himself the owner of the residential premises.
On April 24, 2024, a commission composed of members approved by the resolution of the city administration. Khartsyzsk dated April 8, 2024, an inspection report was drawn up for a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness, according to which the object is an apartment at the address:
<address>
has signs of ownerlessness, there are no signs of economic activity. The condition of the premises is unsatisfactory.
By resolution of the city administration Khartsyzsk on May 2, 2024 was entrusted to the Property Relations Department of the City Administration. Khartsyzsk to apply to the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintaining the Unified State Register of Real Estate, with an application for registration of residential premises located at the address:
<address>
.
On July 31, 2024, the Rosreestr Office for the Donetsk People's Republic drew up a Notice of registration of an ownerless real estate property located at the above address.
During the trial it was also established that, according to an extract from the Unified State Register of Real Estate dated April 3, 2025, the property was located at:
<address>
, registered as ownerless on July 31, 2024.
At the same time, according to data from the Khartsyzskteploset Branch of the State Unitary Enterprise DPR Donbassteploenergo dated April 4, 2025, the subscriber has the following address:
<address>
, there is no arrears in payment for services, the last payment was made in March 2025.
In accordance with the data of the Municipal Unitary Enterprise "City Service of the Single Customer of Khartsyzsk" dated April 7, 2025, at the above address a personal account was opened for
Full name6
, registered
FULL NAME7
There are no outstanding payments for services as of April 1, 2025. Payment for the period from April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 was made on March 18, 2025.
According to the Khartsyzsk Department of Gas Supply and Gasification dated April 8, 2025,
<address>
on
<address>
<address>
not gasified.
According to the report of the assistant of the UUP OUUP No. 1 (location Zugres) dated April 14, 2025, in the course of fulfilling the court’s instructions, residents were interviewed
<address>
on
<address>
, who explained that at the address:
<address>
no one lives for a long period of time, but the apartment has an owner.
In accordance with clause 1 of Article 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, an ownerless thing is a thing that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown or, unless otherwise provided by law, the ownership of which the owner has refused.
Chapter 33 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation regulates the procedure for considering cases on recognizing a movable thing as ownerless or recognizing ownership of an ownerless immovable thing.
According to clause 6, part 1, art. 262, part 2 art. 290 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, an application for recognition of the right of ownership of an ownerless immovable property is considered by the court in a special proceeding.
Part 3 of Art. 263 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation establishes that if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, the existence of a dispute about the right is established, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of litigation.
As follows from the case materials, the debt for housing and communal services for the maintenance of the apartment located at the address:
<address>
, at the time of consideration of this case, was extinguished, which indicates that there is an owner of the apartment who bears the burden of its maintenance.
From the contents of Chapter 33 of the Civil Procedural Code of the Russian Federation, it follows that a dispute about law is a formally recognized disagreement between subjects of civil law that arose due to the violation or challenge of the subjective rights of one party to a civil legal relationship by the other party, requiring settlement by the parties themselves or resolution by the court, characterized by the following features: violation or challenge of the subjective rights of a person (subject of protection) by another specific person (violator), presentation by the subject of protection of a demand to the violator for a certain behavior, failure by the violator to comply with the demands of the subject of protection.
Thus, the court considers that there is a dispute about the right to real estate, which is subject to consideration in the procedure of claim proceedings, and not through consideration of the application in the procedure of special proceedings.
If there is a dispute about the right, resolving the issue within the framework of the procedure established by law for recognizing a thing as ownerless is unacceptable.
Based on the established circumstances and rules of law, the requirements specified by the applicant for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property are not indisputable and are subject to proof, that is, they are aimed at resolving a dispute of a civil legal nature, which cannot be considered according to rules 33 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation.
The requirement to establish the presence or absence of grounds for the emergence of a right can be stated only by filing a claim and must be considered in the procedure of claim proceedings.
Under these circumstances, the court comes to the conclusion that the stated demands of the Administration of the Khartsyzsk Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property are not subject to consideration in a special manner, and therefore the application must be left without consideration.
The demands of the Administration of the Khartsyzsk Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property must be resolved according to the general rules of claim proceedings.
Guided by Art. 263 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, court,
defined:
Statement from the Administration of the Khartsyzsk Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate property located at the address:
<address>
- leave without consideration.
Explain to the applicant the right to go to court through a claim proceeding.
The ruling can be appealed by filing a private complaint with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court within fifteen days from the date of the ruling.
Judge of the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court E.I. Kobziy