№
DEFINITION
June 02, 2025
<address>
Gorlovka City Court composed of: presiding judge Egorova O.V., with the secretary of the court session
Full name3
with the participation of the applicant's representative
Full name4
,
having considered the application in an open court session in the courtroom as a special proceeding
FULL NAME7
, interested person
Full name1
,
Full name6
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property,
INSTALLED:
Full name8
applied to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property - a residential property
<address>
, motivating their demands by the fact that an object was identified at the specified address that had signs of being ownerless within the meaning of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation - without an owner, the owner of which is unknown or has renounced ownership rights. Since, as established by the commission
Full name9
and reflected in the corresponding act dated
DD.MM.YYYY
, it was not possible to identify the owner of the real estate object, requests recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the specified real estate object.
At the court hearing, the applicant's representative
Full name10
supported the stated demands.
Interested person
Full name1
was notified of the date, place and time of the consideration of the case, did not appear at the court hearing, provided the court with a statement in which he indicated that he was a disabled person of group I and could not appear at the court hearing for health reasons. Indicated that
<address>
belongs to him according to the will
Full name2
from
DD.MM.YYYY
, certified by a private notary of the Gorlovka city notary district, registered in the register
№
. Believes that the application is subject to consideration in the procedure of claim proceedings in connection with the existence of a dispute about the right.
At the court hearing, a representative of the interested party
Full name11
did not appear, submitted a statement to the court in which he asked to consider the case in his absence.
The court, having listened to the participants in the process and examined the case materials, comes to the conclusion that the application should be left without consideration in accordance with Part 3 of Art. 263 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, according to which, if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, it is established that there is a dispute about a right within the jurisdiction of the court, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of a claim proceeding, explaining to the applicant the right to apply to the court with the specified requirements in the order of a claim proceeding.
Guided by Part 3 of Art. 263, Article 224 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court,
DEFINED:
Application for special proceedings
Full name12
, interested parties
Full name1
,
Full name13
on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property shall be left without consideration.
Explain to the applicant the right to go to court with the specified requirements in the manner of claim proceedings.
A private complaint against the court's ruling may be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Gorlovka City Court within fifteen days from the date of issuance.
Judge of the Gorlovka City Court O.V. Egorova