UID 93RS0023-01-2025-005602-69
Case No. 2-3324/2025
DEFINITION
September 23, 2025 Yenakievo
Yenakievo Interdistrict Court composed of: presiding judge D.V. Bug, with assistant judge O.N. Lisovskaya,
with the participation of the interested person Nikitin A.N.,
having considered in open court a civil case at the request of the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Full name1
,
Full name2
, on recognition of the right of state ownership of an ownerless immovable thing,
INSTALLED:
The applicant, the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic, applied to the court for recognition of the right of state ownership of an ownerless immovable property - non-residential premises
<address>
.
Interested person Shumakov Yu.M. did not appear at the court hearing, provided the court with a statement in which he indicated that he was asking the stated demands of the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of state ownership of an ownerless real estate to be left without consideration, due to the existence of a dispute about the right, since he is the owner of the specified non-residential premises. In addition, they submitted an application to obtain a special permit to register property located at the address:
<address>
.
At the court hearing, the interested party was Nikitin A.N. supported the petition submitted by the interested person Yu.M. Shumakov.
The applicant's representative of the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic did not appear at the court hearing, but was duly notified of the time and place of the hearing.
The representative of the interested party, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing and submitted to the court an application to consider the case in his absence.
At the same time, as established at the court hearing, the owner of the specified property on the basis of a certificate from the Department of Housing and Communal Services of the Yenakievo City Council on the right of ownership of real estate from
DD.MM.YYYY
, is Shumakov Yu.M.
In accordance with Part 3 of Art. 263 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, it is established that there is a dispute about the right within the jurisdiction of the court, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of claim proceedings.
Thus, based on the above, since the owner of the property for which the applicant asks to recognize ownership as ownerless is known, the court sees a dispute about the right, therefore the stated claims should be left without consideration, explaining to the applicant the right to apply to the court with these claims in the manner of claim proceedings.
Guided by Part 3 of Art. 263, art. 224 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court,
DEFINED:
Stated requirements of the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Full name1
,
Full name2
, on recognition of the right of state ownership of an ownerless immovable thing, shall be left without consideration.
To explain to the applicant the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic the right to apply to court with the specified requirements in the manner of claim proceedings.
A private complaint or protest from the prosecutor can be filed through the Yenakievo Interdistrict Court to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic within fifteen days from the date of the ruling.
Judge of the Yenakievo Interdistrict Court D.V. Buga