UID 93RS0005-01-2025-007635-65
Case No. 2-3997/2025
G-2.232
DEFINITION
November 20, 2025 Tsentralno-City District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People's Republic, consisting of:
presiding judge Maksimova N.N.,
under the secretary Kuzmenko M.V.,
with the participation of the interested party O.V. Dolgacheva
having considered in open court in the courtroom in Makeevka a civil case at the request of the administration of the urban district of Makeevka, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, Valentin Ivanovich Dovgalenko, Igor Valentinovich Dovgalenko, Oksana Valentinovna Dolgacheva on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property
U S T A N O V I L:
The court is processing a civil case at the request of the administration of the urban district of Makeyevka, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, Valentin Ivanovich Dovgalenko, Igor Valentinovich Dovgalenko, Oksana Valentinovna Dolgacheva on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property - an apartment located at the address:
<address>
.
At the court hearing, the interested party was O.V. Dolgacheva. filed a motion to leave the application without consideration, due to the fact that she does not recognize the stated requirements, since the apartment is located at:
<address>
, is her property. She has been registered in the said apartment since June 30, 1999. The specified apartment is not ownerless; she lives in this apartment and pays utility bills. These circumstances indicate the existence of a legal dispute between the parties.
The applicant's representative did not appear at the court hearing and filed a petition with the court to consider the case in his absence.
Representative of the interested party - the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, as well as interested parties - V.I. Dovgalenko, I.V. Dovgalenko. did not appear at the court hearing, were duly notified of the time and place of the consideration of the case, and did not notify the court of the reasons for their failure to appear.
The court, after listening to the explanation of the interested party – O.V. Dolgacheva, and having studied the case materials, came to the following conclusion.
Part 3 of Article 263 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation establishes that if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, the existence of a dispute about the right is established, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of litigation.
As can be seen from the case materials, Dolgacheva O.V. is the owner of the apartment, which the applicant asks the court to recognize as ownerless property. These circumstances are confirmed by the title document. Dolgacheva O.V. uses the indicated apartment, pays utility bills, which is confirmed by receipts submitted to the court. Consequently, when considering the case in a special proceeding, the court established the existence of a dispute about the right, which is subject to resolution in the procedure of claim proceedings.
Guided by Part 2 of Art. 263 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
O P R E D E L I L:
statement of the administration of the urban district of Makeyevka, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography of the Donetsk People's Republic, Valentin Ivanovich Dovgalenko, Igor Valentinovich Dovgalenko, Oksana Valentinovna Dolgacheva on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property - an apartment located at the address:
<address>
- leave without consideration.
Explain to the applicant and other interested parties that they have the right to resolve the dispute through litigation.
A private complaint against a court ruling may be filed within fifteen days from the date the court issued the ruling.
Judge