UID 93RS0005-01-2025-008550-36
Case No. 2-4915/2025
G-2.232
DEFINITION
On December 24, 2025, the Central City District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People’s Republic, consisting of:
presiding judge Maksimova N.N.,
under secretary Vetrova A.V.,
with the participation of the interested party Vinnyk M.Yu.,
Having considered in open court in the courtroom in Makeevka a civil case at the request of the administration of the urban district of Makeevka, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography of the Donetsk People's Republic, Vinnyk Miroslav Yurievich on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property
U S T A N O V I L:
The court is processing a civil case at the request of the administration of the urban district of Makeyevka, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography of the Donetsk People's Republic, Vinnyk Miroslav Yuryevich on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property - an apartment located at the address:
<address>
.
At the court hearing, the interested party was Vinny M.Yu. filed a motion to leave the application without consideration, due to the fact that he does not recognize the stated requirements, since the apartment is located at:
<address>
, is his property. The specified apartment is not ownerless; currently he is deprived of the opportunity to register his ownership of the apartment, since the title documents have been lost. He really did not pay utility bills for the apartment on time, and therefore they were collected from him by court decision. Asks the court to leave the application without consideration due to the existence of a dispute about the law.
The applicant's representative did not appear at the court hearing and filed a petition with the court to consider the case in his absence.
The representative of the interested party, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography of the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing and filed a petition with the court to consider the case in his absence.
The court, after listening to the explanation of the interested party - Vinnyk M.Yu., and having studied the case materials, came to the following conclusion.
Part 3 of Article 263 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation establishes that if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, the existence of a dispute about the right is established, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of litigation.
As can be seen from the case materials, Vinnyk M.Yu. is the owner of the apartment, which the applicant asks the court to recognize as ownerless property. These circumstances are confirmed by a title document - a purchase and sale agreement, certified by a notary of the Makeyevka City Notary District
DD.MM.YYYY
. A copy of this agreement was provided to the court by a branch of PJSC Roskadastr. Vinnyk M.Yu. is a citizen of the Russian Federation. Vinnyk M.Yu. uses the indicated apartment. Consequently, when considering the case in a special proceeding, the court established the existence of a dispute about the right, which is subject to resolution in the procedure of claim proceedings.
Guided by Part 2 of Art. 263 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
O P R E D E L I L:
statement from the administration of the urban district of Makeevka, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography of the Donetsk People's Republic, Miroslav Yuryevich Vinnyk on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership to ownerless property - an apartment located at the address:
<address>
- leave without consideration.
Explain to the applicant and other interested parties that they have the right to resolve the dispute through litigation.
A private complaint against a court ruling may be filed within fifteen days from the date the court issued the ruling.
Judge: