Case
№
DEFINITION
January 22, 2026 Kirov Interdistrict Court
<address>
as part of the presiding judge Ryabko Yu.V., with the secretary of the court session
Full name2
, prosecutor
Full name3
, having considered in an open court session on the premises of the court in the city of Donetsk the application of the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, on the recognition of state ownership of an ownerless immovable thing (the object is located at the address: DPR,
<address>
),-
installed:
The said civil case is pending in court.
DD.MM.YYYY
Through the office of the court, the representative of the plaintiff submitted a written application, in which he asks to accept the refusal of the application in connection with the emergence of ownership of the 439/1000 share of DONBASS STROY 21 CENTURY PLUS LLC for the facility at the address: Russian Federation, DPR, city. Donetsk,
<address>
, according to the Certificate of Ownership, b/n from
DD.MM.YYYY
, issued by the Main Department of Improvement and Public Servicing of the Donetsk City Council. The legal consequences of refusal of the claim by the plaintiff are known and understandable.
In accordance with paragraph 3 of Art. 220 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court terminates the proceedings if the plaintiff renounces the claim and the refusal is accepted by the court.
Taking into account the above, the court comes to the conclusion that the refusal of the representative of the DPR MIZO from the application does not contradict the law and does not violate the rights and legitimate interests of other persons, in connection with which the court considers it possible to accept the refusal of the application and terminate the proceedings in the case.
Guided by the above and in accordance with Art. 220 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, -
defined:
accept the refusal of the applicant's representative from the application
Proceedings in a civil case upon application of the Ministry of Property and Land Relations of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, on recognition of state ownership of an ownerless immovable property (the object is located at the address: DPR,
<address>
) - stop.
Explain that repeated appeal to the court in a dispute between the same parties, about the same subject and on the same grounds is not allowed.
A private complaint against this court ruling may be filed within 15 days from the date of the ruling through the court of first instance.
Judge Yu.V. Ryabko