Case No. 2-5142/2025
93RS0037-01-2025-008085-26
DEFINITION
September 08, 2025 Torez
Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court of the Donetsk People's Republic
consisting of:
presiding judge Tashchilin R.I.,
with the secretary of the court session Borisenko A.A.,
having considered in open court a civil case on the application of the administration of the Torez urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate, the interested person:
Full name1
,
INSTALLED:
The Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court of the Donetsk People's Republic is processing a civil case based on an application from the administration of the Torez urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic to recognize the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate located at the address: DPR, town. Pelaneevka,
<address>
, interested person:
Full name1
.
During court hearings:
DD.MM.YYYY
,
DD.MM.YYYY
the applicant and the interested party did not appear, the court was not notified of the reason for the failure to appear, and the court was not properly notified of the date, place and time of the consideration of the civil case.
According to Part 6 of Art. 222 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court leaves the application without consideration if the plaintiff/defendant, who did not ask for the case to be heard in his absence, did not appear in court for a second summons.
Based on the above, guided by Part 6 of Art. 222 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation,
O P R E D E L I L:
Application from the administration of the urban district of Torez of the Donetsk People's Republic on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate, interested person:
Full name1
, – leave without consideration.
The court, at the request of the applicant, cancels its ruling to leave the application without consideration on the grounds specified in paragraphs seven and eight of Article 222 of this Code if the applicant provides evidence confirming the validity of the reasons for failure to appear at the court hearing and the impossibility of reporting them to the court. A private complaint may be filed against the court's decision to refuse to satisfy such a petition.
Judge