№
DEFINITION
DD.MM.YYYY
.
<address>
Novoazovsky District Court of the Donetsk People's Republic composed of:
judge Popeka A.V.,
with the secretary
Full name2
,
having considered in open court a civil case on the application of the Administration of the Novoazovsky Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless thing,
INSTALLED:
The administration of the Novoazovsky municipal district of the DPR applied to the court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless item.
Before the start of the court hearing, a statement was received from the applicant's representative to refuse the application. Did not appear at the court hearing, duly notified.
The interested parties did not appear at the court hearing, were duly notified of the day, time and place of the hearing of the case, the court was not informed of valid reasons for failure to appear, and they did not submit any objections to the termination of the proceedings due to the refusal of the application.
In accordance with Part 1 of Art. 39 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, the plaintiff has the right to abandon the claim. The court accepts the plaintiff’s refusal of the claim if it is contrary to the law or violates the rights and legitimate interests of other persons.
Having examined the case materials and examined the plaintiff’s statement, the court believes that there are no grounds for refusing to satisfy the application to terminate the proceedings. The consequences of refusing the claim to the applicant are explained and understandable.
In accordance with Art. 220 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court terminates the proceedings if the plaintiff renounces the claim and the refusal is accepted by the court.
Based on the above, guided by Art. Art. 39, 220, 221 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation court
DEFINED:
Civil proceedings
№
upon application of the Administration of the Novoazovsky Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless thing - to terminate.
Explain to the applicant that a repeated appeal to the court in a dispute between the same parties, about the same subject and on the same grounds is not allowed.
A private complaint against the determination may be filed within 15 days to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Novoazovsky District Court of the Donetsk People's Republic.
Judge A.V. Popeka