UID 93RS0007-01-2025-001637-08
Case No. 2-635/2025
SOLUTION
In the name of the Russian Federation
city of Mariupol
Donetsk People's Republic April 01, 2025
Ilyichevsky District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk People's Republic
consisting of:
presiding judge Golovchenko Yu.N.,
with the secretary of the court session Boyko T.A.,
having considered in open court a civil case on the application of the administration of the city district of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property,
installed:
The administration of the Mariupol urban district went to court with the above stated demands. In support of the stated requirements, pointing out that the Housing and Communal Services Department of the Mariupol City District Administration was contacted by the administration of the Ilyichevsky District with a List of empty apartments with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Ilyichevsky District in the city of Mariupol, in which at the address:
<address>
, there is real estate that has signs of being ownerless. The measures established by clauses 2.9.1, 2.9.2, 2.9.3 of the standard procedure for identifying, recording and accepting into municipal ownership ownerless real estate and escheat property, approved by Decree of the Head of the DPR dated 04/28/2021 No. 116 by the administration of the Mariupol urban district, were carried out, according to the application of the administration of the Mariupol urban district for registration as ownerless property - an apartment located at:
<address>
which does not have an owner, located on the territory of the Ilyichevsky district of Mariupol, the Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the DPR made an entry in the Unified State Register of Real Estate about the registration of an ownerless object from
DD.MM.YYYY
. The applicant indicates that in accordance with part 1 of Art. 10 of Law No. 66-RZ, after three months from the date of registration of a residential premises as ownerless by the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the authorized body has the right to apply to the court with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the municipality to this residential premises in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation. There is no dispute about the right. Requests recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the administration of the city district of Mariupol to ownerless property - an apartment located at the address:
<address>
, with a total area of 42.9 sq.m.
The representative of the applicant for the administration of the city district of Mariupol DPR did not appear at the court hearing; the date, time and place of the consideration of the case were duly notified.
The representative of the interested party of the Rosreestr Office for the DPR did not appear at the court hearing, submitting to the court an application to consider the case without the participation of a representative.
Guided by the provisions of Art. 167 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court considers it possible to consider the case in the absence of persons who failed to appear.
Having studied the case materials, assessing the evidence presented in its entirety according to the rules of Art. 67 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court comes to the following conclusion.
Chapter 33 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation regulates the procedure for considering cases of recognizing a movable thing as ownerless or recognizing ownership of an ownerless immovable thing.
According to paragraph 3 of Art. 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, in cases and in the manner provided for by this Code, a person may acquire the right of ownership to property that does not have an owner, to property whose owner is unknown, or to property that the owner has abandoned or to which he has lost the right of ownership on other grounds provided by law.
In accordance with paragraph 1 of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerless is a thing that does not have an owner, the owner of which is unknown, or the right of ownership to which the owner has refused.
Based on the provisions of paragraph 3 of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerless real estate is accepted for registration by the body that carries out state registration of rights to real estate, upon application from the local government body in whose territory they are located. After a year has passed from the date of registration of an ownerless immovable property, the body authorized to manage municipal property may apply to the court with a request to recognize the right of municipal ownership of this thing. An ownerless immovable property, not recognized by a court decision as having come into municipal ownership, may be again taken into possession, use and disposal by the owner who abandoned it, or acquired into ownership by virtue of acquisitive prescription.
According to Art. 130 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, immovable things (real estate, real estate) include land plots, subsoil plots and everything that is firmly connected to the land, that is, objects whose movement without disproportionate damage to their purpose is impossible, including buildings, structures, unfinished construction projects. Real estate includes residential and non-residential premises, as well as parts of buildings or structures intended to accommodate vehicles (car spaces), if the boundaries of such premises, parts of buildings or structures are described in the manner established by the legislation on state cadastral registration. Items not related to real estate, including money and securities, are recognized as movable property.
Recognition of ownership of an ownerless immovable property is carried out in a special proceeding upon the application of the body authorized to manage municipal property, in accordance with Art. Art. 290-293 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
By virtue of Part 3 of Art. 263 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, it is established that there is a dispute about the right within the jurisdiction of the court, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute in the manner of litigation.
According to the meaning of these norms, the specified application is considered in special proceedings, when there is no need to resolve the dispute about the subjective right itself.
In accordance with Part 1 of Art. 4 of the Federal Constitutional Law of October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ “On the admission of the Donetsk People's Republic into the Russian Federation and the formation of a new subject within the Russian Federation - the Donetsk People's Republic” (hereinafter referred to as Law No. 5-FKZ) legislative and other regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic from the date of admission to the Russian Federation of the Donetsk People's Republic and the formation of of the Russian Federation of a new subject, unless otherwise provided by Law No. 5-FKZ.
According to Part 2 of Art. 4 of Law No. 5-FKZ, the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic until the end of the transition period or until the adoption of the relevant regulatory legal act of the Russian Federation and (or) the regulatory legal act of the Donetsk People's Republic.
At the same time, Art. 21 of Law No. 5-FKZ establishes the specifics of regulating relations in the sphere of real estate turnover on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic.
In accordance with clause 2, part 1, art. 21 of Law No. 5-FKZ, until January 01, 2028, on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic may establish features of the regulation of property relations, including the circulation of land, in agreement with the federal executive body performing the functions of managing state property.
By virtue of Part 7 of Art. 12 of Law No. 5-FKZ, the procedure for recognizing property that is not classified as federal property, the property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, is applied until January 1, 2028 in agreement with the federal executive body performing the functions of managing state property.
In pursuance of the above norm, Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation dated December 28, 2022 No. 2474 was adopted “On approval of the Rules for the management of bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic, Lugansk People's Republic, Zaporozhye region and Kherson region having signs of ownerlessness and not classified as federal property, property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property, located on the territory of these constituent entities of the Russian Federation”, Law of Donetsk of the People's Republic of March 21, 2024 No. 66-RZ “On the peculiarities of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal ownership of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises with signs of an ownerless creature located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic”, amendments were made to the Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116 “On identifying, recording and accepting in municipal ownership of ownerless real estate and escheat property.”
In order to accept, record and register ownerless real estate escheatable property, improve the efficiency of its use, the administration of the city of Mariupol adopted Order No. 766 dated 05.12.2023 “On approval of the Procedure for identifying, recording and accepting ownerless real estate and escheatable property into municipal ownership on the administrative territory of the municipality of the city of Mariupol” (as amended).
In accordance with paragraph 2.12 of the Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116 “On the identification, registration and acceptance into municipal ownership of ownerless real estate and escheat property”, in order to register a real estate object as ownerless, the administration issues a corresponding order and applies to the territorial body of the federal executive body that carries out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate, with an application for registration of an immovable property as ownerless and other documents provided for by current legislation.
A similar norm is enshrined in paragraph 2 of part 1 of Article 7 of the Law of the Donetsk People’s Republic of March 21, 2024 No. 66-RZ “On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People’s Republic to residential premises with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic.”
According to Art. 2 of the Law of the Donetsk People's Republic of March 21, 2024 No. 66-RZ “On the specifics of identifying, using and recognizing the right of municipal property of municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic to residential premises that have signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic” (hereinafter referred to as Law No. 66-RZ), the signs of ownerless property in relation to residential premises are:
failure to pay for residential premises and utilities within one year from the date of identification of residential premises that have signs of ownerlessness;
lack of information about the registered ownership of residential premises in the Unified State Register of Real Estate;
non-use of residential premises, which, among other things, creates a threat to its safety (or an apartment building if the premises is an apartment, a room in an apartment building), safety for the life and health of other persons (including the rights holders of other premises in an apartment building if the premises is an apartment, a room in an apartment building).
In accordance with Art. 3 of Law No. 66-RZ, local government bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic, represented by bodies authorized by them, independently carry out actions to identify, record and accept residential premises that have signs of ownerless property into the municipal property of the municipalities of the Donetsk People's Republic, on the territories of which they are located, on the grounds provided for by law.
According to Art. 5 of Law No. 66-RZ, the authorized body, in connection with information received about a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness:
1) requests information on the official website of the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation (https://www.nalog.gov.ru/) - about the availability in the Unified State Register of Legal Entities of information about a legal entity that is a possible owner of residential premises (if it is necessary to establish the status of a legal entity);
2) sends requests to confirm information about identified residential premises that have signs of ownerlessness;
3) within 10 calendar days from the date of discovery of a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness, places on the official website of the local government body on the Internet, as well as in accessible places at the entrance to the residential premises, an announcement about the identification of a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness, and about the need for personal appearance before the authorized body of the person (persons) who considers themselves its owner or has (have) rights to it, within 30 calendar days from the date of placement of such an advertisement with the following documents: a) passport of a citizen of the Russian Federation or other identification document; b) title documents (certifying the right) for residential premises;
4) after 30 calendar days from the date of publication of the announcement, in the event of the absence of a person (persons) who considers themselves the owner of the residential premises, and after receiving information from the website (if it is necessary to obtain such information) specified in paragraph 1 of this article, responses from the authorities specified in paragraph 2 of this article, indicating that the residential premises, which have signs of ownerless property, do not have an owner: a) within 5 working days, draw up an act of impossibility identifying the owner of this residential premises; b) organizes, if necessary, in the prescribed manner, the carrying out of cadastral work in relation to residential premises that have signs of being ownerless, as well as assigning a postal address to it; c) if necessary, collects other documents confirming the presence of signs of ownerless property in the residential premises, including documents indicating the absence of residents in such residential premises (inspection reports, extracts from house books, personal accounts, etc.); d) organizes a commission inspection of a residential premises that has signs of ownerlessness (with an on-site visit), with the involvement of the necessary representatives of the executive bodies of the Donetsk People's Republic and territorial bodies of the federal executive authorities, organizations (as agreed) and with the drawing up of an appropriate act, which indicates the details of the act, the date of the inspection, information about the persons involved, the location, technical and other condition of the residential premises, an inventory of furniture, household appliances and other movable property located in the residential premises, as well as other information indicating the presence of signs of ownerlessness of the residential premises.
In accordance with part 1 of Art. 10 of Law No. 66-RZ, after three months from the date of registration of a residential premises as ownerless by the territorial body of the federal executive body carrying out state cadastral registration, state registration of rights, maintenance of the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the authorized body applies to the court with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the municipality to this residential premises in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Russian Federation.
The court found that the administration of the city district of Mariupol acts on the basis of the Regulations approved by the decision of the Head of the Administration of the city district of Mariupol dated November 15, 2023 No. 54 “On approval of the Regulations on the administration of the city of Mariupol in a new edition.”
The administration of the Ilyichevsky district contacted the Housing and Communal Services Department of the Mariupol city administration with a List of empty apartments with signs of ownerless property located on the territory of the Ilyichevsky district in the city of Mariupol, in which at the address:
<address>
, there is real estate that has signs of being ownerless.
DD.MM.YYYY
information about the real estate property located at the address:
<address>
, was posted on the official website of the Municipality of the Mariupol Urban District on the Internet information and telecommunications network, under the section “Attention to real estate owners. The administration of the Mariupol urban district publishes lists of real estate (apartments, individual residential buildings), which, as of
DD.MM.YYYY
shows signs of neglect.
According to the inspection report of a real estate property that has signs of an ownerless item or escheat in the administrative territory of the municipality of the city of Mariupol from
DD.MM.YYYY
, when inspecting an object at the address:
<address>
, it was not possible to establish the fact of residence and presence of the owner. There is no free access, the living space is closed.
DD.MM.YYYY
an act was drawn up on the impossibility of identifying the owner (right holder) of an immovable thing - an apartment according to
<address>
, which has signs of ownerlessness or escheat in the administrative territory of the municipality of the city of Mariupol.
Based on the Resolution of the head of the administration of the city district of Mariupol dated 07/02/2024 No. 255 “On registering real estate as ownerless”, residential premises are an apartment located at the address:
<address>
, entered into the Register of real estate objects registered as an ownerless property (housing stock).
According to an extract from the Unified State Register of Real Estate about the property (information about registered rights), located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic,
<address>
, with an area of 42.9 sq.m., the property was registered as an ownerless property
DD.MM.YYYY
, assigned a cadastral number
№
, the copyright holder is the administration of the city of Mariupol.
From the response of Energosbyt Donetsk LLC it follows that in the apartment at the address:
<address>
, the personal account is open, payment for the consumed utility service is not made.
Resolving the stated requirements, assessing the collected evidence in its entirety according to the rules of Art. 67 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, guided by the provisions of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, Law No. 5-FKZ, Law of the Donetsk People's Republic of March 21, 2024 No. 66-RZ, Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of April 28, 2021 No. 116, the court comes to the conclusion that the owner of the real estate located at the address:
<address>
, with an area of 42.9 sq.m. has not been established, no one lives in the residential premises, payments for utilities are not made, the owner has not registered his ownership rights, has not appeared at the administration of the Mariupol city district in order to exclude real estate from the list of real estate that has signs of ownerlessness, i.e. the owner has actually renounced the right of ownership, the real estate has been registered by the body that carries out state registration of rights to real estate, more than three months have passed since the property was registered, the real estate meets all the characteristics of an ownerless property.
According to paragraphs 1, 3 of Art. 225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, ownerless is a thing that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown or, unless otherwise provided by law, the right of ownership to which the owner has refused. If this is not excluded by the rules of this Code on the acquisition of ownership of things that the owner has abandoned (Article 226), on finds (Articles 227 and 228), on stray animals (Articles 230 and 231) and treasure (Article 233), the right of ownership of ownerless movable things can be acquired by virtue of acquisitive prescription.
By virtue of the provisions of Art. 236 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, a citizen or legal entity may renounce the right of ownership of property belonging to him by declaring this or taking other actions that definitely indicate his removal from ownership, use and disposal of property without the intention of retaining any rights to this property.
From the content of these norms it follows that the current legislation provides for the possibility of terminating the right of ownership of a particular property by the owner performing actions indicating his renunciation of his property right.
At the same time, actions indicating the owner’s renunciation of the right of ownership may include, among other things, the removal of the owner from the possession and use of property belonging to him, and failure to take measures to maintain this property.
Based on the foregoing, the court concludes that there are legal grounds to satisfy the stated requirements.
Guided by Art. Art. 194-198 Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, court
decided:
the stated demands of the administration of the Mariupol urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property are to be satisfied.
Recognize the right of municipal ownership of the administration of the city district of Mariupol of the Donetsk People's Republic to ownerless property - an apartment located at the address:
<address>
, total area 42.9 sq.m.
The decision can be appealed by the parties to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Ilyichevsky District Court of Mariupol within a month from the date the decision was made in final form.
The motivated text of the decision was made on April 14, 2025.
Judge Yu.N. Golovchenko