Case No. 2-648/2025
UID: 93RS0035-01-2025-000883-10
DEFINITION
December 23, 2025 Telmanovsky District Court of the Donetsk People's Republic
consisting of:
presiding judge Boyko N.I.,
under the secretary Sokirko I.N.,
having considered in open court a civil case at the request of the Administration of the Telmanovsky Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Saul V.N.
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate,
u st a n o v i l:
DD.MM.YYYY
The administration of the Telmanovsky municipal district of the Donetsk People's Republic appealed to the Telmanovsky district court of the Donetsk People's Republic with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate - a non-residential building with an area of 61.1 sq.m., located at the address: Telmanovsky municipal district,
<address>
A, cadastral
№
.
At the request of the court, the public law company "Roskadastr" for the DPR sent to the court archival documents on the state registration of ownership of real estate, from which it follows that the owner of the specified real estate is:
Full name2
.
By a determination made in protocol form,
Saul V.N.
brought to participate in the case as an interested party, the latter submitted a statement to the court in which he asks the court to refuse to satisfy the stated demands of the Administration of the Telmanovsky Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate - for a non-residential building belonging to him - a weighing station, located at the address: Telmanovsky Municipal District,
<address>
A, provided title documents for the disputed real estate, and asked for the case to be considered in his absence.
In accordance with Part 3 of Art. 263 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, if, when filing an application or considering a case in a special proceeding, it is established that there is a dispute about the law, the court issues a ruling to leave the application without consideration.
Based on the above, a statement from the Administration of the Telmanovsky Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Saul V.N.
, on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate, shall be left without consideration, due to the existence of a dispute about the right.
Taking into account the above, guided by Part 3 of Art. 263 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
defined:
civil case at the request of the Administration of the Telmanovsky Municipal District of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic,
Saul V.N.
, on recognition of the right of municipal ownership to ownerless real estate - a non-residential building with an area of 61.1 sq.m., located at the address: Telmanovsky municipal district,
<address>
A, cadastral
№
– leave without consideration.
Explain to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute through litigation.
A private complaint against a court ruling may be filed with the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Telmanovsky District Court of the Donetsk People's Republic within fifteen days from the date of the ruling.
Judge