UID 93RS0005-01-2026-000570-33
Case No. 2-710/2026
category G-2.232
SOLUTION
named after the Russian Federation
March 6, 2026 Makeevka
Tsentralno-City District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People's Republic, consisting of:
presiding judge: Kovaleva E.S.
under the secretary A.R. Voznik,
Having considered in open court in a courtroom in the city of Makeevka a civil case at the request of the Administration of the urban district of Makeevka, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property,
installed:
The administration of the urban district of Makeyevka applied to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property, the interested party: the Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, in support of the claim, indicating that on October 27, 2025, the real estate was in the form of a non-residential building with an area of 455.4 sq.m., located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, cadastral number
№
, accepted by the Rosreestr Office for the Donetsk People's Republic to be registered as ownerless. Other owners are unknown. After the expiration of a three-month period from the date of registration of the object as ownerless, no individuals or legal entities have made any claims regarding the object that is the subject of this application, that is, there is no dispute about the right. The applicant asks the court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of the municipality of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic to ownerless real estate - a non-residential building, located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, cadastral number
№
.
The representative of the applicant - the Administration of the city district of Makeyevka, the representative of the interested party - the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic did not appear at the court hearing, they submitted an application to the court in which they asked to consider the case without their participation, the stated requirements were supported in full.
Information about the time and place of consideration of this civil case in accordance with Part 7 of Article 113 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation is posted on the official website of the Tsentralno-Gorodsky District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People's Republic http://centralno-gorodskoy.dnr.sudrf.ru (judicial records section).
The court, based on the provisions of Art. 167 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, believes it is possible to consider the case in the absence of representatives of the applicant and the interested party who did not appear.
Having examined the case materials, the court came to the conclusion that the demands of the Makeevka City District Administration must be satisfied on the following grounds:
According to paragraph 6 of part 1 of Article 262 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, in a special proceeding the court considers cases on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property.
According to Part 1 of Article 225 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian Federation, an ownerless thing is one that does not have an owner or the owner of which is unknown, or, unless otherwise provided by law, the owner of which has renounced the right of ownership.
Paragraph 3 of Article 218 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation provides that a person can acquire ownership of property that does not have an owner, property whose owner is unknown, or property that the owner has abandoned or to which he has lost ownership on other grounds provided by law.
By the Decree of the Administration of the Makeevka Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic, real estate is a non-residential building located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, registered as ownerless.
According to an extract from the Unified State Register, at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18 object of unfinished construction, cadastral number
№
, registered as an ownerless property. The copyright holder is the administration of the Makeevka urban district.
According to the Territorial Administration of the Federal Agency for State Property Management in the DPR, information in the Register of Federal Property for the facility located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, absent.
From notification 13978/04.1.2-10 it is seen that in the Register of Municipally Owned Objects, information regarding the non-residential building located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, absent.
According to information from the State Property Fund of the DPR, as of August 21, 2025, information about the real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, there are no objects in the Unified Register of State Property of the DPR and objects in respect of which temporary administration (operational management) has been introduced, as well as objects of other forms of ownership under state control.
According to the branch "Makeevskoye PUVKH" of the State Unitary Enterprise DPR "Water of Donbass", at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeysky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, there is no contract, information about the owner is also missing.
According to information from the Separate Division "Energosbyt Donetsk" LLC "Energosbyt Donetsk", in relation to the facility at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeysky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, no contractual relations, no debt.
According to information from the Donbassgaz Group of Companies, at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, the facility is not connected to the gas supply system.
From the response of the State Unitary Enterprise of the DPR "Donbassteploenergo" it follows that the facility is located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, is not a consumer of thermal energy of the Makeevteploset Branch; there is no information about the owner.
According to the findings of the inspection report on the technical condition of a residential premises with signs of ownerlessness dated October 21, 2025, located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, st. Yaroshenko, 88, it is not possible to identify the owner.
The official website of the DPR on the Internet information and telecommunications network contains information about a real estate property located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, in order to identify and inform the owner of real estate.
According to Article 4 of the Federal Constitutional Law of the Russian Federation dated October 4, 2022 No. 5-FKZ, “On the admission into the Russian Federation of the Donetsk People's Republic and the formation within the Russian Federation of a new subject - the Donetsk People's Republic,” legislative and other regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic from the date of admission to the Russian Federation of the Donetsk People's Republic and the formation of a new entity within the Russian Federation subject, unless otherwise provided by this Federal Constitutional Law.
Regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic are valid on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic until the end of the transition period or until the adoption of the corresponding regulatory legal act of the Russian Federation and (or) the regulatory legal act of the Donetsk People's Republic.
According to Part 7 of Article 12 of Law No. 5-FKZ, management of property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, which has signs of ownerlessness and is not classified as federal property, the property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property, is carried out by the authorities of the Donetsk People's Republic in the manner established by the Government of the Russian Federation, unless otherwise provided by this Federal Constitutional Law. The procedure for recognizing such property as ownerless, established by the regulatory legal acts of the Donetsk People's Republic, is applied until January 1, 2028, in agreement with the federal executive body exercising the functions of managing state property.
According to paragraph 1.2 of the Decree of the Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of May 10, 2023 No. 140, the executive body of the Donetsk People's Republic authorized to manage state property has the right to apply to the court with a demand for recognition of the right of state ownership of the objects defined in subparagraph 1.1 of this paragraph (with the exception of residential premises, outbuildings intended to satisfy citizens' household and other needs), after three months from the date their registration as ownerless real estate by the body carrying out state registration of rights to real estate.
By Decree of the Acting Head of the Donetsk People's Republic of February 27, 2023 No. 64 “On some issues related to the management of property that has signs of ownerlessness, located on the territory of the Donetsk People’s Republic, and the recognition of such property as ownerless,” the Government of the Donetsk People’s Republic is vested with the authority to establish (adopt) a procedure for recognizing as ownerless property that has signs of ownerlessness and not classified as federal property, property of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation or municipal property located on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, with the exception of real estate in the form of residential premises, residential buildings, and outbuildings.
In accordance with paragraph 20 of the Resolution of the Administration of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic "On approval of the procedure for identifying, recording and accepting ownerless real estate into the ownership of the municipal formation of the urban district of Makeyevka of the Donetsk People's Republic" dated June 3, 2024 No. 355 (hereinafter referred to as Resolution No. 355) after the expiration of the period provided for by current legislation from the date of registration ownerless real estate is registered as ownerless by the territorial federal executive body that carries out state accounting, state registration of rights, maintaining the Unified State Register of Real Estate, the Administration applies to the court with an application for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of the property in the manner prescribed by current legislation."
In accordance with paragraph 7 of Resolution No. 355, the Administration of the Makeyevka Urban District of the Donetsk People's Republic independently carries out actions to identify, record and accept ownerless real estate into the ownership of the municipality of the Makeyevka urban district.
In accordance with paragraph 8 of Resolution No. 355, information about real estate that has signs of ownerlessness can come from legal entities, regardless of organizational and legal forms and form of ownership, individual entrepreneurs, individuals, including public authorities, who have become aware of such property.
In accordance with paragraph 14 of Resolution No. 355, the Administration of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic carried out all the prescribed measures to identify ownerless real estate that has signs of ownerlessness.
As can be seen from the case materials, any individuals and legal entities have claims regarding a real estate property - non-residential premises, located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovsky, 18, was not declared, that is, there is no dispute about the right. These circumstances give the administration of the Makeyevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic the right to apply to the court for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless property in a special proceeding.
The court also found that, despite the implementation by the administration of the urban district of Makeevka of the Donetsk People's Republic of all necessary measures to place in the media information regarding real estate - non-residential premises located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, urban district of Makeevka, city of Makeevka, Chervonogvardeisky intra-city district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, for which municipal management has been introduced, its owner has not yet appeared.
Guided by Art. Art. 3, 22, 194 - 198, 262 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court
decided:
The application of the Makeevka City District Administration is to be satisfied.
Recognize the right of municipal ownership of the municipality of the Makeevka urban district of the Donetsk People's Republic to ownerless real estate - non-residential premises located at the address: Russian Federation, Donetsk People's Republic, Makeevka urban district, Makeevka city, Chervonogvardeisky intracity district, st. Chernyakhovskogo, 18, cadastral number 93:36:0010503:7548.
The decision can be appealed on appeal to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic, through the Tsentralno-Gorodsky District Court of Makeevka, Donetsk People's Republic, within a month from the date the decision was made in final form.
Judge
The reasoned court decision was made on March 13, 2026.