Case No. 2-72/2025
UID: 93RS0001-01-2024-012011-34
DEFINITION
February 4, 2025 Budennovsky interdistrict court of the city of Donetsk:
presiding judge: Titova O.A.
with the secretary of the court session: Mashkina D.A.,
Having considered in an open court session in the courtroom of the city of Donetsk a civil case at the request of the Administration of the city district of Donetsk of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, Limited Liability Company "POG and PB", TSN LCD "Zhuravliny" on the recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate, the court, -
INSTALLED
The applicant applied to the court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless immovable property.
The applicant's representative repeatedly failed to appear at court hearings, was duly notified of the date, time and place of court hearings, did not inform the court of the reason for his failure to appear, and did not provide the court with an application for consideration of the case in his absence.
The representative of the interested person, the Office of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, did not appear at the court hearing, was duly notified of the date, time and place of the court hearing, did not inform the court of the reason for his failure to appear, and did not provide the court with an application for consideration of the case in his absence.
The representative of the interested party of the Limited Liability Company "POG and PB" did not appear at the court hearing, was duly notified of the date, time and place of the court hearing, did not inform the court of the reason for his failure to appear, and did not provide the court with an application for consideration of the case in his absence.
The representative of the interested party TSN residential complex "Zhuravliny" did not appear at the court hearing, was duly notified of the date, time and place of the court hearing, and sent an application to the court with a request to consider the case in his absence.
The court, having examined the case materials, considers that the said application should be left without consideration for the following reasons.
According to clause 7, part 1, art. 222 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court leaves the application without consideration if the plaintiff, who did not ask for the case to be heard in his absence, did not appear in court for a second summons, and the defendant does not demand consideration of the case on the merits.
On December 3, 2024, the applicant’s representative did not appear at the court hearing; he was duly notified of the date, time and place of the court hearing; he did not inform the court of the reason for his failure to appear; he did not provide statements or petitions to the court.
On December 19, 2024, the applicant’s representative did not appear at the court hearing; he was duly notified of the date, time and place of the court hearing; he did not inform the court of the reason for his failure to appear; he did not submit statements or petitions to the court.
On December 26, 2024, the applicant’s representative failed to appear at the court hearing again; he was duly notified of the date, time and place of the court hearing, by sending a subpoena, as well as a court notice.
On February 4, 2025, the applicant’s representative failed to appear at the court hearing again; he was duly notified of the date, time and place of the court hearing, by sending a subpoena, as well as a court notice.
Article 167 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation provides that persons participating in the case are obliged to notify the court of the reasons for failure to appear and provide evidence of the validity of these reasons. If any of the persons participating in the case, for whom there is no information about their notification, fails to appear at the court hearing, the hearing of the case is postponed. If the persons participating in the case are notified of the time and place of the court hearing, the court postpones the hearing of the case if the reasons for their failure to appear are recognized as valid. The court has the right to consider the case if any of the persons participating in the case and notified of the time and place of the court session fail to appear, if they do not provide information about the reasons for the failure to appear or the court recognizes the reasons for their failure to appear as disrespectful. If a citizen in respect of whom an application for declaring him incompetent has been filed is duly notified of the time and place of the trial, consideration of the case in his absence is allowed provided that the court recognizes the reasons for his failure to appear as disrespectful. The court has the right to consider the case in the absence of the defendant, who has been notified of the time and place of the court hearing, if he has not informed the court of valid reasons for failure to appear and has not asked to consider the case in his absence. The parties have the right to ask the court to consider the case in their absence and to send them copies of the court decision. The court may postpone the hearing of a case at the request of a person participating in the case due to the failure of his representative to appear for a valid reason.
There is no information in the case file that the applicant’s representative, who showed due diligence, did not have the opportunity to inform the court in advance about the reasons for failure to appear at the court hearing and their validity. The applicant did not ask for the court hearing to be postponed, he did not apply for the case to be considered in his absence, and he was notified in advance and properly about the time and place of the court hearings.
By virtue of the current procedural legislation, the obligation to inform the court about the reasons for failure to appear and to provide evidence of their validity lies with the parties and other persons participating in the case.
The applicant's representative, knowing for certain that the present civil case was pending in court, initiated at his request, as well as about the dates of the court hearing, did not show the due degree of care and forethought, and did not submit a petition to the court to consider the case in his absence or to postpone the court hearing.
Under such circumstances, the court considers it necessary to leave the said statement of claim without consideration due to the plaintiff’s second failure to appear in court.
Based on the above, guided by Art. Art. 222, 223 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, court, –
DEFINED
Statement of the Administration of the City District of Donetsk of the Donetsk People's Republic, interested parties: Department of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography for the Donetsk People's Republic, Limited Liability Company "POG and PB", TSN LCD "Zhuravliny" on recognition of the right of municipal ownership of an ownerless real estate - leave without consideration.
Explain to the applicant's representative that after eliminating the circumstances that served as the basis for leaving the statement of claim without consideration, he has the right to again apply to the court with a statement in the general manner. The court, at the request of the applicant’s representative, revokes its decision to leave the application without consideration if the applicant’s representative presents evidence confirming the validity of the reasons for failure to appear at the court hearing and the impossibility of reporting them to the court.
A private complaint may be filed against a ruling to refuse to satisfy a petition to cancel a ruling to leave an application without consideration to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Budennovsky Interdistrict Court of Donetsk within fifteen days from the date of the ruling.
Judge Budennovsky
Interdistrict Court of Donetsk O.A. Titova