Case
№
93RS0037-01-2025-011876-02
DEFINITION
on termination of proceedings
On October 23, 2025, judge of the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court of the Donetsk People's Republic Tashchilina R.I., with the secretary of the court session
Full name2
examined in open court at the courthouse
<address>
civil case on the application of the administration of the urban district of Torez of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate, interested person:
Full name1
,
INSTALLED:
The administration applied to the court to recognize the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate (
<address>
- 45.1 sq.m.,
<address>
, 2 microdistrict,
<address>
, DPR, CN
№
Court ruling dated
DD.MM.YYYY
the statement of claim was accepted for proceedings, a civil case was initiated and assigned for consideration in a special manner.
DD.MM.YYYY
The court received an application from the administration to waive the claims.
In accordance with Art. 39 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the plaintiff has the right to abandon the claim, which must be accepted by the court.
According to Art. 220 clause 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the proceedings in the case are subject to termination if the plaintiff refuses the claim.
Considering that a waiver of the requirements was declared, this waiver does not violate the rights and interests of other persons and the applicant himself, the court considers it possible to accept this waiver and terminate the proceedings.
Based on the above and guided by Art. Art. 39, 220, 224, 225 Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation court,
DEFINED:
Accept the refusal of the administration of the urban district of Torez of the Donetsk People's Republic from the requirements for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate, interested person:
Full name1
.
Proceedings in a civil case on the application of the administration of the urban district of Torez of the Donetsk People's Republic for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of ownerless real estate, interested person:
Full name1
, - stop.
The ruling can be appealed to the Supreme Court of the Donetsk People's Republic through the Khartsyzsk Interdistrict Court of the Donetsk People's Republic within fifteen days from the date of the ruling.
Judge Tashchilin R.I.