2-76/2025
DEFINITION
about leaving the application without consideration
January 09, 2025 Mariupol
Primorsky District Court of Mariupol composed of: presiding Reznichenko V.A. Secretary Kolesnik V.A. having considered in a court hearing a civil case on the application of the Administration of the Mariupol City District for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of a real estate property registered as ownerless -
installed:
The administration of the city district of Mariupol appealed to the court with this application. Applicant
DD.MM.YYYY
and
DD.MM.YYYY
, failed to appear at the court hearing twice, was duly notified of the time and place of the hearing, did not report the reasons for his failure to appear, and was not asked to consider the case in his absence.
In accordance with paragraph 8 of Article 222 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, the court leaves the application without consideration if the plaintiff, who did not request the hearing of the case in his absence, did not appear in court for a second summons, and the defendant does not demand consideration of the case on the merits.
Since the applicant did not appear in court again when summoned and was notified of the date, time and place of the trial, the court considers it necessary to leave this application without consideration.
Based on the above and guided by Article 222 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation,
defined:
the application of the Administration of the Mariupol City District for recognition of the right of municipal ownership of a real estate object registered as ownerless shall be left without consideration.
Explain that the court, at the request of the plaintiff or defendant, cancels its ruling to leave the application without consideration on the grounds specified in paragraphs seven and eight of Article 222 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation if the plaintiff or defendant presents evidence confirming the validity of the reasons for failure to appear at the court hearing and the impossibility of reporting them to the court.
A private complaint may be filed against the court's decision to refuse to satisfy such a petition.
Judge V.A. Reznichenko